https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150472.The_Fish_Can_Sing

The fish can sing just like a bird,And grazes on the moorland scree,While cattle in a lowing herdRoam the rolling sea.Starting from this Icelandic paradox put in verse, Halldór Laxness weaves an enchanting tale on the outskirts of Reykjavík, in a time when the price of a Bible was equal to that of a heifer and people still tried to cure headaches by smearing their faces with warm cow-dung.
Some say that The Fish Can Sing is a coming-of-age novel, but I don't really see it that way; it is more the diary of a place, Brekkukot, and the portrait of a generation long gone, in a time when Reykjavík was just a bunch of houses inhabited by farmers and fishermen.
Eu gostei muito deste romance mas há vários dias que o volto e revolto; faço resumos e escrevo palermices; leio opiniões alheias; e nada...
Ainda estive tentada a fazer um plágio (estou em crer que ninguém dava por isso mas a minha maldita consciência trava-me).
A opinião do Rodrigo, que é muito bonita.================================="Poucas coisas são tão falíveis e inconstantes como o coração que ama, e no entanto é o único lugar no mundo onde existe o sentimento de partilha."— 
Halldór Laxness
(Gente Independente)Halldór Laxness nasceu em Reykjavík, Islândia, no dia 23 de Abril de 1902 e morreu em Reykjavík, Islândia, no dia 8 de Fevereiro de 1998.
A Islândia tem uma matriz literária moderna e aqui está ela.Seguimos a vida de Alfgrimur, desde a adopção pelos “avós” cuja vivência se faz da mais genuína e autêntica fibra humana, até ao encontro com o homem real, por trás do cantor de ópera famoso Garðar Hólm.
Neste estilo, parece ganhar um registo íntimo e uma edificação lenta, mas nobre onde muitos reconhecem o regresso às origens, depois do Nobel ganho com Gente Independente.
Já não vou a tempo, contudo, está aqui um excelente ponto de partida para quem se queira iniciar na escrita islandesa.
A gentle comedy set in pre independence Iceland.
Most intriguing of all is Gardar Holm, the son of a neighbour.
or is he.Gardar flits in and out of the boys life during fleeting return trips home, almost but not quite giving a concert to his adoring home town.
One day the saga finally comes to a conclusion as a date for the big concert is set.
Unwittingly the boy is sucked into the maelstrom and his path for life is set.There is a sense of a country in transition as the old Iceland is changing, moving towards independence and with modern industry starting to take hold.
The sheer beauty and peculiarity of this life is caught with perfectly pitched humor and sensitivity.
The humor permeates everything-almost, because although one might most often be laughing out loud, caught by a fresh surprise, in the end the sorrow and the sympathy, or some sort of love for the characters, is overwhelming.Oh, if only some of the sufficiency and modesty of the Brekkukot inhabitants had prevailed better in Halldór Laxness's beloved land.
A fancier house has long since replaced Brekkukot, it says so in the story, it was so in the real life world.
One should at least allow everyone to live as he himself wants to live as long as he does not prevent others from living as they want to live.) However the foster-grandparents' emotional buttoned-up-ness filters through later in inconvenient ways as Álfgrímur finds himself more tongue-tied than the average teenage male narrator when he's confronted with attractive girls.There is a cosiness about the book, but Álfgrímur's lack of interior reflection about his teenage years and schooling, which he found unenjoyable though seemingly not awful, (contrasting with the vibrant descriptions of the childhood he still evidently misses) made him less appealing a narrator as he grew older; his lack of reflectiveness and not-very-rich memory here is at least true to psychological type.
Não é exagerada a nota no fim do livro: 'Laxness falece aos 96 anos, consagrado como um dos maiores escritores de sempre.' Entra, efectivamente, para o meu passeio da fama.O curioso ao ler 'Os peixes também sabem cantar' é a sensação de querer ler mais 10 livros assim.
É o desvendar dos segredos deste personagem que vai empurrar Álfgrímur para o mundo do canto, em busca da 'nota pura'.
Com vontade de ir para lá e conhecer Brekkukot, de ir à apanha dos peixes, de assistir aos serviços fúnebres da 'gente pobre' - assegurados pelo canto de Álfgrímur.Este livro é uma enorme lição de simplicidade.
...and swim underwater, for a really long time.Great stuff from this Icelander.
Still, reading it with that knowledge in the back of my mind, the novel turns for me into much more that the intimate portrait of a "family", a small village community at the turn of the last century and a coming-of-age story of a young orphan boy, Alfgrimur.
His and the wider world come together, in a way, for Alfgrimur at least, in the person of Gardar Holm, the famous son of the village, turned world-traveling opera singer.
XXHalldór Laxness (1902 – 1998) é o mais famoso escritor islandês, laureado com o Prémio Nobel da Literatura em 1955.Álfgrímur, o narrador de “Os Peixes Também Sabem Cantar”, foi um bebé abandonado pela sua mãe, uma jovem rapariga que partiu para a América, que acaba adoptado pelo pescador Björn de Brekkukot e pela sua mulher, um casal de idosos, um avô e uma avó, que vivem numa pobre casa tradicional, com o telhado de erva/relva/turfa, um refúgio que alberga no seu sótão um grupo de personagens peculiares e excêntricas – o reformado capitão naval Hogensen, o superintendente de Reykjavik e filósofo Jón de Skaggi e o homem que espalha estrume na cidade Runólfur Jónsson – três habitantes permanentes a que se juntam outros de passagem, com histórias dramáticas de doença e morte.
I mean not even the bohemian likes of former playwright and Czechoslovakian President Vaclav Havel could have made it better.(For some additional awe-inspiring fun, just check the Icelandic phonebook which is one for all the country and has people listed on it alphabetically but by their first name).Anyways, the Reykjavik that you can find in 'The Fish Can Sing' looks centuries away from the one I saw.

Sitting on top of an Icelandic mountain, surrounded by sheep covered in that famous wool, looking out over the ocean, and reading this superb little book of stories, was just about the happiest I have ever been.
He is beyond comparison, but Laxness can perhaps be likened to Hemingway, if Hemingway liked people.
Alfgrim calls it like he sees it, and suddenly we´ve learned how grandmother feels about singing songs to the dog.
Sing to the cows, they do good work.) This book does not announce its novelty, much like "Gilead." But because it´s Iceland, land of sagas, even the cows are epic to me.
Foi mais ou menos assim que este livro veio parar às minhas mãos.Num primeiro momento fiquei bastante entusiasmado com a leitura, com o que estava a conhecer através do ponto de vista de um personagem, entre outros, e com a Islândia do início do século XX representada.
E penso que foi isso que o autor também quis mostrar - que o seu país tem raízes muito interessantes, mas que não escaparam à dialéctica do "progresso" que se movia na velha Europa.A Islândia e o mundo lá fora, longe e diferente.Num segundo momento, acabei por sentir que a narrativa poderia culminar noutro climax e resolução.
(2.5 στα 5)Μια πρώτη γνωριμία με τον Ισλανδό Νομπελίστα, μάλλον απογοητευτική.
Πολύ λίγα συμβαίνουν σε αυτό το βιβλίο ενηλικίωσης (coming of age, όπως λέμε και στο χωριό) και η όχι ιδιαίτερα αξιοπρόσεχτη γραφή δεν αντισταθμίζει.
Κάποιες όμορφες σελίδες για τη ζωή στην επαρχία της χώρας, μερικοί μεστοί διάλογοι κυρίως προς το τέλος, 2-3 ενδιαφέροντες φασματικοί χαρακτήρες, ωστόσο όλα διαδραματίζονται υπό ένα φίλτρο ηθικής/πνευματι(στι)κής αναζήτησης το οποίο με απωθεί μεν εγγενώς, πιστεύω όμως ότι και ευρύτερα κρατάει τον αναγνώστη σε μια απόσταση, εμποδίζοντάς τον να νοιαστεί ιδιαίτερα γι' αυτά που διαβάζει.
Ήταν σαν ένα μέτριο γιαπωνέζικο μυθιστόρημα, με μια σχετικώς ιδιότυπη ατμόσφαιρα και διαφορετικής (από εμάς) συμπεριφοράς χαρακτήρες,δίχως όμως τη μαγεία.
Blasphemy, but I feel like in reading one book by Laxness I kind of have him covered. He gets repetitive in his patterns and it makes the actual plot in his novels take a long time to get to.But one of my rules in speed dating my collection is being willing to say NOPE.
Reykjavik was only a town of 5,000 people, and the farm Brekkukot was situated right on the edge of the current cbd.It is a simple story, beautifully told, of a young boy Alfgrimur, left by his mother on her way to America.
As Alfgrimur observes,"I think my grandfather Bjorn of Brekkukot would not have been significantly different if he had lived here in Iceland in pagan times", or anywhere else, for that matter.This glorious simplicity is contrasted with the pretensions of the Danes and their local wannabes.
ისლანდიური “მე, ბებია, ილიკო და ილარიონი”-ა. ))) ბევრი რამით ჰგავს.სიამოვნებით წავიკითხავდი ლაქსნესის სხვა ნაწარმოებებსაც თუა ნათარგმნი.
It is a charming novel dealing with the coming of age of Álfgrímur, an orphan brought up by his 'grandparents' in a small village in Iceland (Reykjavík, in the days when it was a small village).
It is not your typical coming of age novel though; it is profoundly odd in a way that is difficult to explain but that stems mainly from the mysterious Garðar Hólm, the singer reminiscent in some ways of Nonni from Independent People.
It is definitely worth the effort though for the stunning, as always, Laxnessian descriptions and musings of childhood, and it is an 'easier' read in many ways than Independent People.
Ενα ταξίδι στον τόπο του νομπελίστα με μικρές, προσωπικές του καταστάσεις, ιστορίες με εικόνες γεμάτες συναίσθημα. Δεν είναι το έργο που θα σε συναρπάσει, ούτε θα σε τραβήξει να το τελειώσεις μονορούφι. Αυτό το βιβλίο θέλει το χρόνο του και σιγά - σιγά θα σε αποζημιώσει.
The story is narrated by a young boy, Alfgrímur, growing up under the care of his adoptive grandparents, who are principled, hardworking, poor, and generous to the point of recklessness.
Even as Alfgrímur grows up and his larger-than-life heroes come into focus as flawed, frayed human beings, the childlike credulity in his narration is replaced by a tactful restraint that is just as unhelpful to you, the reader, as you try to sift truth from legend in Alfgrímur's peculiar world.Although I feel like I'd have to read it again to understand it, I couldn't help but like this book.
אריוך (מאנגלית), 244 עמ' אם יש משהו שפועם בדייגים האיסלנדים, אם יש להם שאיפה לגיבוריו של הלדור לכסנס, זו השאיפה להוכיח לכול העולם שיש עוד משהו באיסלנד חוץ מדגים, או כפי שפזמון איסלנדי גורס: "גם הדג יודע לשיר ממש כמו ציפור// ומזון לו מוצא באדמת המלחה,// וגדי וטלה ופרה ומור// על גלי ים סוער שטים בשימחה" (201).במישור המידי, "גם הדג ישיר", היא סאגה המתארת את החברה האיסלנדית בפתח המאה ה- 20, בכפר דיגים, דרך עיניו של אלפגרים, יתום שאומץ ע"י זוג דייגים המנהלים אכסניית חינם לכל דורש.
הגדולה של הלדור לכסנס ניכרת רק ברבע האחרון של הספר, עת המעגלים נסגרים והאפיזודות נקשרות לכדי מיקשה אחת קוהרנטית ובעלת משמעות.
A Wonderful portrait of the simple life in a small village near Reykjavik in the days when bibles cost a cow, the need for a barber shop was a point of much debate, fables, little people and simplicity ruled.It traces the early life of a boy abandoned at birth and reared by two old people who share their poor abode with a great set of mad characters. There is a mysterious famous opera singer, kind people and a few ambitious people.There's a lot going on this part-saga, part-historical piece. Great writing, great stories. Humour and humanity.
But if, and when?If people adhere to the doctrine that words are spoken in order to hide one's thoughts, that words mean something entirely different, sometimes even directly opposite to what they are saying, it is possible, occasionally at least, to reconcile oneself to them and to forgive the poet; not to mention if the words in all their strangeness have the task of indicating the truth in music; one is forced to acknowledge them then to a certain extent – for the music's sake.And there is the core of the matter, one of the ruminant stomachs of Laxness' laughing wisdom in the busy concision of the orphan Alfgrimur, who is entirely gormless and yet always thinking and beautiful: "for instance, my legs were so long that they always got in my way when I walked, and my arms hung on me like some tatty pieces of luggage that I did not know how to get rid of.
Solid, if a bit unfocused. I confess I'm not very keen on short novels that have digressions in them; if you're going to digress, do it properly! Or just write a great novella about a young man's artistic awakening, and his attempt to square the urge to create art with the certain knowledge that you're going to fail.
They impart a great deal of wisdom to Alfgrimur because of their traditions - morals about life, love, money, gossip, relationships.
But change happens, and Alfgrimur accepts it cautiously - he wants to grow up and become a Lumpfisherman, like his grandfather, even after attending school and finishing at the top of the class, and even after learning how to make music - admittedly, how to make music quite poorly - and even after meeting the world famous Gar(th)ur Holm.
Beforehand, it is a bit more challenging to stay interested in, despite the beautiful writing and the great characters.
Nevertheless, the main character Alfgrímur is quite mature, having a firm mind and knowing the value of self-worth, just needing some guidance about the larger world.
The opera singer Gárdár Holm describes the pure note as characteristic of "total anonymity" more than of "fame".
Each of these eccentric characters has a history, which Alfgrímur relates.
There's also Alfgrímur's supposed, slightly older relation Gárdár Holm, to whom the younger boy is loyal.
The older boy is catapulted into singing fame of international stature in the minds of the community.
For years now I’ve loved the work of Halldor Laxness, Iceland’s pre-eminent man of letters, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1955 but now is seldom read.
We’re still friends, but she views my opinions on literature with deep suspicion.I reckon there are two alternatives if you wish to explore Laxness’ world and ‘Independent People’ seems a little daunting.
I revere Laxness’ novels because they introduced me to an entire world that I’ve found nowhere else.
In the strung-out world where we live now, his novels are a very special refuge.
Also like Kafka, Laxness takes the ordinary like a phase and blows it out of proportion.
I guess to repeat, this book 'The Fish Can Sing' has Kafka elements without the desperation.
'Under the Glacier' is more unique and less easy to describe.The edition I read was a different cover, and that cover had an impressionist painting of a village.
It's about a fishing town in Iceland, and you imagine Van Gogh paintings as you read.I tried not to put any plot line in this review, because I don't remember that well, and I recommend people read Laxness own their own to see if they like it.
