https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161057.My_World_And_Welcome_To_It
3 and 1/2 ✨ Loved the short stories in Part 1, not so much in Part 2 where Thuber wrote while living in France.
"It is a source of considerable astonishment to me," said the scientist, sitting down beside the lemming, "that you are capable of speech.""You human beings are always astonished," said the lemming, "when any other animal can do anything you can.
Except for one thing, I know all there is to know about you, and a singularly dreary, dolorous and distasteful store of information it is, too, to use only adjectives that begin with 'd.'""You say you have made a lifelong study of my species--" began the scientist."Indeed I have," broke in the lemming.
A classic. I keep re-reading it. One of the funniest books ever written.
I think there is some disconnect between the humor of Thurber and the present day for me.
I did not roll on the floor laughing at his clever turn of phrase because it was often predictable.
I struggled through the second part of the book because it was mostly recollections of France and Europe.
This may add to the reader experience, but I am not going to read another book of his to try it out.
I struggled with this for a long time.
I also watched an interview of him on Youtube which was characteristic of his humor so I didn't laugh.
After reading this I thought, man this guy was weird.
Some of these stories were just off the wall.
Some stories made me laugh.
My favorite (not in this book) is The Last Flower.
I read that in high school many moons ago and just loved it.
I still think about it today.
The Secret Life of Walter Mitty is about a mans imagination.
Just one adventure after another while driving his wife into town for errands, only to be brought back into reality by his overbearing wife.
I get the premise of the story now.
The problem with James Thurber is that he simply isn't versatile as a writer. When writing farce or humor he can provide some decent, pleasant entertainment, but his "serious" writing is limited, and I feel like I am reading variations on the same theme over and over again. The more Thurber I consume, the more I am convinced that he was a mediocre talent who caught lightning in a bottle with The Secret Life of Walter Mitty.
This may be the best short story collection ever published. "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty," "You Could Look It Up," and "A Sort of Genius" are classics. And "Memorial" and "The Man Who Hated Moonbaum" have stayed in my memory for over 45 years.
Curioso, pero creo que le falta sustancia...
A collection of short stories and magazine articles written in the late 1930s and early 1940s by James Thurber who wrote for The New Yorker magazine.The first chapter is The Secret Life of Walter Mitty, a short story that has inspired 2 films!
Some of that might also be related to the fact that these were written 75-80 years ago.I would advise non-Thurber fans to read The Secret Life of Walter Mitty, Interview with a Lemming and The Macbeth Murder Mystery but the rest could be missed.
My World – And Welcome To It by James Thurber (Harvest/HBJ Book 1942) (817). This is a collection of Thurber's short stories. It contains the incomparable tale “The Secret Life of Walter Mitty.” How that ten page short story was turned into two full-length feature movies is beyond me. My rating: 7/10, finished 1/13/17.
I did not find any of these details particularly distracting from the core purposes of the narratives, though if you are one to obsess about knowing every single thing about every single off hand reference, you may be unsettled by the constraints of zeitgeist inherent in much of the work in this collection.Read with a mind attentive to the time of the writing I feel the book provides a compelling insight into the period, the periods in near history upon which it occasionally reflects, as well as some glimpses at some truly timeless notions such as those offered by peering into the daydreams of Walter Mitty, entering into conversation with a Lemming, or mourning a beloved pet.
It is hard not to relax, smile and then start laughing some time later, even completely uncontrollably, when one reads Thurber.
And it is difficult to remember which story is in which book.I have a fair certainty that some of my early favourites are in this one, but am not sure which ones.
Perhaps this one also has the story of Roy informing his father that the engine had fallen out, using kitchen pots and pans and so on to create a frightening scare.But even if they are all in another book by Thurber, what I am sure of is having read it and loved it.
Some aspects of Thurber's view of the world seem quite dated now and he was clearly an egocentric individual. Probably a man I wouldn't much like in person. But his quirky sense of humor can be amusing and his clever turn of phrase tends to stick in one's mind. I still recall one of my aunts referring to "things that go bump in the night"! Diversionary stuff.
just re-read. still entertaining. fits my sense of humor. may be dull to others. but i totally "get" thurber. third reading 18 january 2015 -- as i get older, thurber just gets better! what fun: the human condition, tongue -in-cheek read by john cullum (holling vincoeur on northern exposure) whose voice is perfect for delivery james thurber to the listener's ears. whoop.
short stories, essays, reflections... some funny, some scary, always reflective... definitey has a thing against women though.... what's really strange is that although written in 1935 these stories/morals/opinions are still with us today - ahead of his time and definitely a good writer.
If you haven't read Thurber, go do it. He is amazing. Far and away, one of the most brilliant literary minds. His short stories are treasures and feel, to me, like burst of liquid sunlight. They are warm and vibrant and speak to you so simply, so honestly, and so filled with wit and humor.
'The Macbeth Murder Mystery' is one of the stories in this book. Need I say more? This is very funny and it has cartoons too! When you are feeling down, here's your remedy. There is nothing like a Thurber story to cheer you up.
from the mind that brought you walter mitty.. a delightful collection of witty little stories. if you enjoy clever writing and pop culture references that all date back to at least 60 years ago (which i do!) you'll probably like this one.
If you haven't read Thurber, you owe it to yourself to give it a try. Another reviewer dinged it for being dated, but for me that is part of its charm. Wonderful short stories and essays with style and wit. Simply delightful.
Thoughtful, yet sometimes slow. Loved a few of the vignettes, slugged through a few. A lot of jumbled detail in the more political stories that I had trouble following, but loved the more plebeian stories about married life and English class.
This work was published decades before I was born.As such, it is a point-in-time reference to our culture.But, story after story did not resonate with me.Sadly, I put it down.
Nice collection of little stories; bigger than vignettes but not by much. Entertaining but not spellbinding. Humorous.
A highly enjoyable classic.
I need to read more Thurber--he's hilarious! His writing is definitely not P.C., but I supposed that's a major part of the charm. This book is a collection of some of his best New Yorker writing.
Thurber amuses me, in a quiet sort of way. Not doing-a-spit-take-with-my-own-spit sort of way. Just a little upturning on the lips on one side of the mouth.
I remember loving Thurber when I was younger, but a lot of the humor was too tied to the time in which it was written & didn't hold up well. :(
I love James Thurber!!!!
Thurber's brilliant at being Thurber. I always want him to come out on top, and of course he never truly does. He's my favorite example of "hapless."
Thurber's insights into life are outrageous.
Excellent depictions of visual imagery in text form.Gets boring towards the end
