https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/345912.The_White_Nile
"I am here, like iron.." --Major-General Charles "Chinese" GordonJust outstanding, though I think the "White Nile" part of the story fades quickly after the first 75 pages or so.
After that, the figure of General Charles "Chinese" Gordon, and the siege of Khartoum dominates the book.
Lots of slaves, which is really what this book is about.
The slave trade was quite healthy in central Africa, and was wrapped up in the lifestyle of the Moslem populace.
Breaking the practice of slavery involved a complex mix of Christian missionaries, war, famine, and the deliberate actions of a number of the explorers listed above.
Reread.Published in 1960, this is still the most comprehensive, thoroughly researched, elegantly written study of the search for the great river's origins and the struggles and conflicts between nations and native peoples to control it and its hinterland.
Along the way, it also brings in such other relevant events and characters as the Suez Canal, the American Civil War, the "White Rajah of Sarawak," the Dreyfus Affair, Major (later General then Lord) Kitchener and a very young Churchill; and introduces a full cast of important and colorful players I'd never heard of before, but will never now forget - the Europeans Emin, Slatin, Baring, Gessi and Baker; the Arabs Zobeir, Tippu Tib, the Khalifa Abdullah, Sultan Barghash and Khedive Ismaili; the Africans Mutesa, Mwanga, Kabarega and Rumanika...And of course, there's the endless geography lesson - the Mountains of the Moon; the explorations and ultimate understanding of Lakes Victoria, Edward and Tanganyika; the history and importance of Zanzibar; the slow transition from Equitoria and the always-warring kingdoms of Bunyoro, Karagwe and Buganda into today's Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda; the deadly desolation of the endless Sudd; and so much more.This is a long, dense book - "massive and monumental" indeed - best taken in small chunks.

Burton and Speke and their quarrel on whether or not Lake Victoria was the source of the Nile.
And my favorite characters, all the Italian explorers whose names I remember from street signs in Italy, but whose stories I had never known: Giovanni Miani, Gaetano Casati and Romolo Gessi (brilliant tactician in guerrilla warfare against Arab slavers in the Sudan, had a stormy relationship with Gordon: "Matters came to a head when Gessi returned from his circumnavigation of Lake Albert and Gordon, delighted with his achievement, was incautious enough to remark, 'What a pity that you are not an Englishman.').
I loved the first third of this book - I picked it up looking for the grand adventure stories of an age of exploration, and that's what the first third gave me.
The rest was a more mundane history, lots of information about geopolitics and military campaigns and clashes of culture and personality.
For all the blood spilled, the book might easily be titled The Red Nile.) Moorehead's biases are in clear evidence (or perhaps they're simply the biases he anticipated in his audience).
I learned a lot, and I'll seek out more of Moorehead's work in the future.
In a mysterious way the light of human ambition was extinguished, the villas stayed chained to the Stone Age, and from century to century life revolved in an endless ant-like cycle of crude customs and traditions.
Every new generation have way to the same passive fatalistic acceptance of things as they were, and reason was suffocated by habit and superstition."It jumped around between explorers a fair amount, such that I'm now jumbling up the details.
Overall, I liked it, but have found other books on Victorian era exploration to be more consistent.
I read this while I was in Tanzania and it provided great background of the history of colonial "discovery" and development of the region.
Moorehead did a great job of bringing the story to life and making the history feel like it was personal.
He weaves the explorers journals into the text so that they are often telling their own story.
The book was written in 1960 and there are parts that are dated and Moorehead is at his worse when he is passing judgement on the societies that the explorers discover.
Those parts aside, the book was delightful.
Exactly what history should be.
Personal.
The description is accurate. I picked this book up off of a friend's bookshelf and was captivated. The world described is so foreign to our own that it is often difficult to comprehend. Not only is the physical environment alluring, but the cultures encountered by these adventurers are often wild beyond expectation. What is expecially striking though is the determination and will exhibited by these explorers to complete their chosen mission at whatever the costs. One of the most interesting non-fiction books I have ever read.
Classic account of Britain's exploration of the Nile River and expansion into Central Africa. Moorehead recounts famous personages (Burton, Speke, Gordon, Kitchener) and events (Livingston and Stanley's meeting, the Mahdist Wars, Fashoda) with engaging style, commendable objectivity and dry humor. Mine is an illustrated version with dozens of handsome photographs and drawings.
This was an incredibly interesting and exciting read; Moorehead gives notes on each chapter that include a bibliography centered on the topic of the chapter.The book is divided into four sections; the first section, The Exploration, details Richard Burton’s trip into Central Africa in the 1850’s, and the first sight of Lake Victoria.
Each man is the victim of forces which are stronger than himself.” (p.261-262)Moorehead begins to close the story by detailing the legacy of Livingstone and Gordon, two significant anti-slavery forces in the opening up of the Nile and Central Africa, which threatened to become farce.
Alan Moorehead was a renowned Australian journalist who began his career reporting on the Spanish Civil War and the North African campaign during the Second World War. After the war, he turned to narrative history and published one of his most highly acclaimed books, "The White Nile," in 1960."The White Nile" follows that great river’s course through the last half of the 19th Century, beginning with Richard Burton and John Speke’s 1856 expedition to find its source and ending with Britain’s suppression of the Mahdist Revolt in the 1890s.Tracing the source of the Nile to Lake Victoria is a story of heroic feats of endurance and hardship.
I am a big fan of travel writing and have devoured every single book written by Sir Richard Burton as well as many other Victorian era explorers.
I would put this down to the style of such writing at the time, but I know that one can read the even older firsthand accounts of these explorers and that they are anything but dry.
If you're looking for a story of adventure, exploration, politics, and personalities, you can still find it here, but you'll have to wade through a great deal to get to it.
This book opened up an entire new world to me.
Dr. Livingston, Stanley (the American journalist become British explorer), and other exploring greats are discussed in this book.
The book begins with the competition between British exploring greats Burton and Speke and Burton’s discovery of Lake Victoria and claim that the Lake must be the source of the Nile.
The book ends with Muslim siege of Khartoum and the death of General Gordon.
In light of all I have learned about Islam in Sudan and how it gave rise to Osama bin Laden, this book discusses the distant roots of that movement.

'The White Nile,' if not the most compelling read, is a thoughtful and fair history of the international exploration and exploitation of Western Africa in the 19th-early 20th Centuries. Morehead's willingness to respect and judge when appropriate helps deal with a history of humanity at it's best and worst. Further, as Africa is again a battlefield for nations and faiths, it's a great reminder of where this round of history started.
This is the best of histories. Moorehead has great skills in making these peoples and events alive and relevant. given our 20/20 hindsight we see how the exploitation of Northern Africa leads to the current mess of Arab/Isralie conflict. The Brits, French and German all played a huge part in shaping this political bonfire. Well written. I also finished his sequel, Blue Nile. Its emphasis on Napoleon's invasion of Egypt and the British influence on Ethiopia was fascinating
I'm fascinated by Victorian Age eccentrics and this book is chock full o' them!But equally as interesting are the portraits of African monarchs, quite a wacky bunch.
This is a really good book -- well-written, full of surprising and fascinating information. Was very pleased when I found a used copy of his follow-up, "The Blue Nile."
One of the few places you can find an insightful overview of the history of central Africa. It's an explorer book at heart but SO much more.
I enjoyed reading this book about Africa. While you are learning about the river, you are also learning about the explorers, the people, and some of the history of Africa. A good read.
Be sure to read "The Blue Nile".
Perhaps it was the hardships, or the sickness, or the endlessness of the quests, but the Europeans were also constantly squabbling among themselves.Since most people know little about African history, the only scene in the book that they would have a passing familiarity with is Stanley’s famous line, “Doctor Livingstone, I presume?” on meeting him near Lake Tanganyika.
Not that Livingstone thought he was lost, he had just been out of contact for so long a search for him had been started.The tales of adventure, and misadventure, of courage and cowardice in the search for the headwaters of the Nile give way in the second part of the book to the famous story of Gordon at Khartoum.
No small detail is left out, and it is interesting to learn how the Royal Society pays for a portion of the trips, sometimes explorers' personal wealth picks up the remainder.The best part was the latter third of the book, where the Madhi's siege against Gordon, trapped in Khartoum, begins and ends.
Like a horror story, even when you know what happens in the end, Moorehead's skill is in slowly teasing out the false moves that Gordon makes, one at a time, falling from a position of superiority to helpless abandon.Side note - I happened to watch "Lost City of Z" and although it took place in the Amazon there were many striking parallels.
I like the history and learning more about these explorers(Including Burton, Spekes,the Bakers, Livingston, Gordon, Stanley and more).
when heavy dew drenched her Victorian skirts and they bring her to the ground she has not compunction about getting into men's clothing."P106- "We tend to think of Livingstone as an old man, but he was only fifty-two when he set out upon his last journey in 1865, and now more than ever, he had that quality which the Arabs describe as baraka.
This is an excellent, well-written and very readable book about the White Nile, the longer branch that merges with the Blue Nile in Khartoum to firm the Nile River. It starts off with Burton and Speke, Stanley & Livingstone....but then spends too much time (IMO) discussing Gordon, the battles at Khartoum & Omdurman, etc. I felt like the book strayed from its original intent of discussing the exploration of the Nile, so I am k ocking off a star for that.
Alan Moorehead does an extraordinary account of the White Nile and Central Africa. The history with it's historians are all here. From it's barbaric ways to the present this is one fantastic historical read on the mighty Nile.
Variable quality. Some parts are fascinating and atmospheric, and other parts are very tedious. The maps are insufficient. The author assumes a basic familiarity with the characters and their stories that I did not have.
A very well written book that give accounts of the explorers exploration of White Nile and Central Africa over many decades. Written in permissible racial slurs of the mid-20th century, a racist delight and handbook of the self-righteous White man's imperialism and its apologists.
Read like a novel. I never knew anything about Africa and it was a great way to learn.
