https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89937.Principia_Discordia_Or_How_I_Found_Goddess_and_What_I_Did_to_Her_When_I_Found_Her
ERIS DISCORDIA, WHEN I SEE YOU AT SUMMERSLAM YOU'RE GONNA TAKE A BITE FROM THE APPLE OF COMBAT, BROTHER!
YOUR PHILOSOPHY IS AN EMPTY SKULL THAT I SHALL TRANSFORM INTO MY CHALICE, ERIS DISCORDIA!
YOUR BEADED CURTAIN FOLLOWERS SHALL TREMBLE AT THE MIGHT OF THE WARRIORS!
IN ONE MUSCLE OF MY BODY THERE IS A THOUSAND TROJAN WARS RAGING!
AS THE AGE OF THE SUMMERSLAM APPROACHES AND THE CLOUDS GROW FAT LIKE A STARSHIP EXPLODING IN THE INFINITE VACUUM OF SPACE, YOU WILL LEARN THE MEANING OF TREMBLING, ERIS DISCORDIA!
WHEN WE MEET IN THE RING, YOUR DICTIONARY WILL BE SCRAWLED INSIDE WITH TEN THOUSAND NEW WORDS FOR DEFEAT!
"All things happen in fives, or are divisible by or are multiples of five, or are somehow directly or indirectly appropriate to five." Principia Discordia, p. 16When I was five I won a toy car at a carnival. The car had the number 23 painted on the side. The numbers of my birth year add up to twenty. I was born in the fifth month of the year. It's 5:13 as I'm typing this. Coincidence? No, my fine friend, I think not.
If I could give this a 1,000 out of 5, I wouldn't.-The introduction alone will have you a devout follower of Eris.-HIGHLY RECOMMENDED-REMEMBER: King Kong died for our sins.- ~~ OLD POEE SLOGAN ~~ When in Doubt, Fuck it. When not in Doubt... get in Doubt!A telegram sent to God:-Dear God;This is to inform you that your current position as deity is herewith terminated due to gross incompetence STOP Your check will be mailed STOP Please do not use me for a referenceRespectfully,Malaclypse the Younger/Omnibenevolent PolyfatherPOEE High Priest
it is difficult for me to rate this "book." it is like asking a christian to rate the bible. but it actually isn't. like the Necronomicon, this book is also true. if you do not believe then you are certainly one of Gruad's ophidian henchmen and should be fed to Leviathan post-haste.
Fnord.I believe that Discordianism was a transitional stage between the avant-garde art movements of the early twentieth century and the "zine revolution" of the 1980s.
Much of the artistic style that would later define the Xeroxed zine was established in the _Principia_, as was a certain irreverent playfulness that would haunt the zine world as well.As to the spiritual side of th subject matter, it largely pre-saged the renewed interest in Goddess worship and post-modern Magic(k).
The idea that religion or Magic(k) could include humor was also fairly unique at the time, although it would be taken to different extremes by the Church of the Subgenius, the Illuminates of Thanateros, and other groups in subsequent decades.
It looks like I am alone in really hating this odd little publication.
Actually, I don't hate it, as I understand its purpose and value to some, and I understand why so many people dig it.
And yet, it really makes my skin crawl.
Believe me, I am a fan of the odd and nonsensical and I know this pasted together missive has been around since the 60's, and yet, it is empty.
It's a one trick pony, being beaten over and over and over and it bored me to tears.
Boring.
'A Discordian is Prohibited of Believing What he Reads' - The Five Commandments (The PENTABARF) Read that quote a few times. Then read the book. You might understand what it's about. There will be some people who take this book to be their holy book and will memorize paragraphs and quotes, take detailed notes, and bury $3000 in their backyards. They are big fucking idiots and missed the whole point of the book.Others will read it and see it as a confusing joke book and completely dismiss it. Th
There will be some people who take this book to be their holy book and will memorize paragraphs and quotes, take detailed notes, and bury $3000 in their backyards.
They are big fucking idiots and missed the whole point of the book.Others will read it and see it as a confusing joke book and completely dismiss it.
They are also idiots.Those who think of chaos and disorder as the inherent state of all existence and of existence itself as absurd are most likely to find meaning and brilliance in this book.
And if you don't care about the philosophical aspect of this book, still read it because the writing is fucking amazing.
Hilarious. If you are religious, please read this book and get over yourself. If you're not religious, you'll appreciate the points it makes through satire and sarcasm. You can find it on the Internet for free.
If you haven't read this: Why haven't you read this book?If you have read this: Why aren't you quoting it right now?If you are quoting it right now: Why are you quoting it to me? I've already read the book.
In the early seventies, conspiracy buff Kerry Wendell Thornley (who served in the Marine Corps with Lee Harvey Oswald) and Gregory Hill decided to express their thoughts on religion, secret societies, and life in general in book form.
Their book is presented as the "magnum opiate" of Discordianism, a religion and secret society devoted to the worship of Eris, the Greek goddess of chaos.
Now, twenty years later, the folks at Steve Jackson Games have done Discordians everywhere a service by publishing a new edition of the Principia.
Actual rating: 2.5 My most darling love muffin read this book and loved it and immediately gave it to me to read...
and much like the other books she's passed on to me to read, I unfortunately wasn't digging it.
I was just too confused most the time to really get into it and enjoy it (so I suppose I could be an Erisian because the chaos and confusion didn't work for me).I will, however, say there were a few times I chuckled while reading and there were some great quotes from the book you can read below.
There's a fun satire of religion in here, mixed with a bunch of other junk alternatingly funny, dated, and bizarre. I asked my pineal gland what was up, and it looked at me sternly and asked if I really thought I was a Cartesian. So screw that. I'm going to go have a hot dog, because screw Discordianism.HAIL ERIS HAIL DISCORDIA HAIL HAIL HAIL YES
An interesting breakdown of chaos magick. Reads like crazy person ranting on the street and a sleezy guy with a greasy ponytail, wearing a black velour button-up trying to get you to participate in his Sunday night basement ritual under the pretext of "building cones of power".
Life-changing shit here, fnord. Every time I re-read this, I wonder why I don't do so more often. Unratable, for obvious reasons, but also a five-star book in clear accordance with The Law of Fives, praise be un5 Eris.
Super funny and gives you a lot to think about. It presents an interesting philosophy witch I am defiantly going to get deeper into.
Of course, as soon as we try to embrace or understand chaos it is no longer chaotic.
However, even this book resulted in a personal interpretation, and I nestled it comfortably between my previous knowledge of chaos and expectations.
We all impose order on this text, or embrace it as it is without trying to acquire a meaning from it, which results in no knowledge being conveyed to us.
So either we gain something from this text by trying to make sense of it, or we gain only validation of discordian principles, but do not necessarily expand our horizons or learn more about discordia.
I read the ideas in here and think that I've known them all my life, but that's only because the people who originally created and read and passed around this book by photocopy are the ones who went on to create so much of the technology of today's world, and their design choices and philosophy can't help but influence the way people think today.
Having read it, I'm not sure why.It might have hit a stronger chord in the 60's, before the idea of creating a new religion to shine light on the perversities of organized religion and human culture more broadly became relatively commonplace.
But to me, now, it read like the effortfully nonsensical ramblings of stoned college students, disillusioned by the wreck that is the world and wanting to escape it-- like a group of guys got together and riffed on one single interesting, though not particularly challenging, idea while high, expanding upon it later to exaggerate the wackiness and insightfulness of their trip.Chaos is valuable and under-appreciated.
This book reads either as a hilarious satire of new age religion, a hilarious mockery of traditional religion, or a hilarious collection of really stupid things.In any case, it's hilarious. And a quick read.
the reason i love this book can be summed up in one commandment of discordia-"all discordians are forbidden from believing anything they read."i think that says it all,dont you agree rachel miller?
This book is my guide in all things. What more can I possibly say?
Kun nyt kerran olen käyttänyt Discordia jo puolitoista vuotta, niin ajattelin viimeinkin lukea käyttöohjeen.
Jotain ohjelman helppokäyttöisyydestä ehkä kertoo se, että käyttöohjeiden ensipainos on julkaistu jo puolisen vuosisataa ennen itse ohjelman julkaisemista.
No, hyvin olen saanut viestini lähetettyä.
Ja jos totta puhutaan, niin käyttöohjeen lukeminen vain hämmentää asiassa.Mutjoo siis tota, postmodernia uskontoparodiaa, joka itsessään on uskonto (feikkaa kunnes meikkaat jne.) ja jota lukiokaverini kovasti julistivat silloin kultaisella ysikytluvulla.
En kuitenkaan ole aiemmin saanut aikaiseksi lukea tätä pyhää kirjaa, vaikka keskeiset opit ovatkin olleet tuttuja jo pitkään.
Harmi, tämä olisi ehkä silloin ysikytluvulla voinut iskeä paremmin meikäläisen pahkasikamaiseen mieleen.
This book is what "Be Here Now" would've turned out as if Ram Dass had taken a bad batch of LSD and lost his mind.
“If a quixotic socrates studied zen under Zorba…?” [p.11]I didn’t realize my life could be summed up in a sentence but that’s pretty damn close.When I become a film director, I’m going to audition actors by asking them to recite passages from this book in an English accent. Principia is almost uniformly hilarious. I’ve dissected its humor and found 3 things:1. Clever wordplay2. Absurdist ideas3. Genius associationsMalaclypse would classify my classification efforts as aneristic, of course.Why th
“If a quixotic socrates studied zen under Zorba…?” [p.11]I didn’t realize my life could be summed up in a sentence but that’s pretty damn close.When I become a film director, I’m going to audition actors by asking them to recite passages from this book in an English accent.
At the hostel I met a zen priest draped in orange robes.
Then you will know."I walked to the stone.
Then after those three weeks, I crawled on my elbows back to the hostel.
The zen priest stood before me, kittens mewing around his feet.
I have done so much searching and still I have nothing."He looked down.
"Who are you again?""I'm me!""Sit in front of a large stone at the end of town for three weeks.
"Who are you again?""I'm me!""Sit in front of a large stone at the end of town for three weeks.
I was worried that Eris Discordia wasn't the Goddess for me.
As an Overman with the purist of Yeti blood running through my veins it seemed that I was locked into the Church of the SubGenius.
I can be an honorary SubGenius and a dishonorary Discordian both at once.
Hail Eris!
Now I am both a Prophet of Bob and an Episkopos of Eris.
Discordia does not allow prophets because that would endanger their nonprophet status.
Goddess will smile upon you.
Goddess is perfectly capable of giving you a set just so she can kick them than take them away.
Admittedly, I picked this up on a lark when it hit the bookshelves (big fan of Steve Jackson Games) and for most of the book I was annoyed and amused by what appeared to be a slapdash production.
I really wasn't sure why it was so popular.The last sentence should prove why I'm an idiot.Woven within a number of slaps and derision at modern culture is a remarkably thorough philosophical base and a great (and definitely different) take on how the universe works.
And long live the Trickster archetype.
This book is a wild ride. If I wasn't the person I am, I would have chalked this book up to being just totally out there in left field. But the writer has a method to his madness. You just have to wait for it. There's a thin line running here between genius and insanity, and he gets dangerously close to falling over both sides at the same time. Don't ask me to be more specific about what I'm talking about with this book. You'd be wasting your time.Yeah, it's that random. That Deliberately random.
A sane man would give this rambling acid trip stream of consciousness one star, while a True Believer would consider giving the Holy Book less than 5 blasphemy. A REAL Discordian, on the other hand, would just roll a die for it, decide he didn't like the result, then roll again, be surprised, say fuck it and just pick a number! Madness, I tell you, yet containing more wisdom than most of the crap written by people who take themselves seriously. Hail Eris!
Only you can pull the meaning you want from this book. If you're dissatisfied with organized religion, but don't feel like you can or want to be an Athiest (although being Athiest doesn't mean you can't be a Discordian or a POPE) and need some sort of "guidance" or ritual in your life then this is probably for you. Also, it helps to have a sense of humor and not take this non-religion too seriously. We Discordians must stick apart.
