https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2376121.Names_on_the_Land
Exactly what is promised in the title.
A history of place names in the United States, from the colonial era until the present writing - the 1950s, with the then-territories of Alaska and Hawaii given prominence.
While much of the book slides into a dull recitation of facts, you can find plenty of trends or fads.
How many names first came from Europe, then from basic descriptions (Blue Ridge mountains, Chimney Rock), how many then came from classical references, or mistranslated or misspelled Native names, and so on.
Stewart finds some charming primary sources as well, about some confused debates over naming towns and beloved mountains.
Stewart's pile-of-facts style reminded me of John McPhee, as if this were a 500 page McPhee New Yorker article.
It was boring.But there were some moderately interesting facts, and some bright moments, as in this 1864 Congressional discussion of the naming of Montana:Mr. Sumner: The name of this new Territory - Montana - strikes me as very peculiar.
It seems to me it must have been borrowed from some novel or other.
I do not know how it originated.Mr. Wade: I cannot tell anything about that.
I do not know but that it may have been borrowed from a novel.
How I wish George R.
How grateful I am that he found the process of naming so fascinating, and that his passion poured out in every sentence he wrote.
The same is here; I do enjoy the contemplations of names, their evolution through history, but Stewart's passion makes the act and process of naming an art form.
I am in awe of the goodreads readers who have claimed this book is boring; I have found this book to be the most engaging way to learn my American history, as I can associate historical events through the names they left behind.
Stewart wrote this book while he was serving in the military during WWII.
Stewart manages to take us through the many processes that existed through history that had play in such naming.
We find that many of our place names were derived from Indian names, transliterated into the language of whichever settler had asked.
If these particular settlers were displaced by other foreign groups, then the spelling might be changed or the meaning translated into a new language.
Many of our place names have been transported whole from the original countries of the various settler groups, although spelling might be changed.
The side-effect profile is quite favorable, with no potential for addiction, or adverse drug interaction with other therapies.
The most prevalent adverse effect observed in trials was chronic bruising of the reader's ankle, the most common site of impact when the book slides from the subject's grasp at the moment of sleep onset.
My experience with this product suggests that repurposing it as a sleep aid, for subjects with mild to moderate insomnia, represents a practical option well worth considering.
Viewed as a potential remedy for subjects experiencing insomnia, the risk-benefit ratio is quite favorable.
He passes the silly, the overly complicated, and the mundane stories of how we named the New Land mostly in a hurry and mostly without having done it for thousands of years.
I learned the 6 basic ways people name places.
I learned that most of the 'Indian' names I grew up around in Michigan were really just badly heard Sioux/Algonquin filtered through badly translated French.
Same is true for most of the 'Indian' names of the states.
I learned the county I was born in (Genesee County, Michigan) was named after the county and town in New York state.
Have you heard the story about how chocolate chip cookies were invented?
Once upon a time there was a lovely young housewife who was going to have company and wanted to make chocolate cookies for them.
Obviously that didn't happen but the result was even better and we all lived happily ever after eating the new cookies.Reading this book was kind of like inventing the chocolate chip cookie.
I thought it was going to be a book full of fascinating facts about names famous and obscure throughout the land.
What it actually is is chocolate chip nuggets of interesting factoids interspersed within the cookie part.
You could have a narrative study of the trends in place-naming and how these trends reflected the growth of the United States.
Or you could have a bathroom style book of factoids explaining how each place in the United States got its name, something quick and easily digestible.
A long narrative story that goes from place to place and explains how each place got its name, occasionally providing historical context.
Light in tone and deep in content, a fun book to dip into or read cover to cover.
Stewart quotes a poem on pg 277 by a popular Lydia Sigourney who wrote "Indian Names" - Ye say they all have pass'd awayThat noble race and brave;That their light canoes have vanish'd,From off the crested wave; That, mid the forests where they roam'd,There rings no hunter's shout;But their name is on your waters, Ye may not wash it out ...Old Massachusetts wears it Within her lordly crown, And broad Ohio bears itAmid his young renown.Connecticut hath wreath'd it, Where her quiet foliage waves, And bold Kentucky breathes it hoarseThrough all her ancient caves.The author notes regarding African Americans, pg330, "Unfortunately the rich imagination and verbal luxuriance of the race had free play only in the informal names of its own districts.
Interesting to read a book on American place-naming written when Alaska and Hawaii weren't even states yet, and when there were people still living whose parents remembered the Civil War. The "historical experience" was probably enhanced by the first-edition copy I'd checked out from the library, brittle pages to match that effusive old prose style, reminding me to be patient even when I skipped some of the longer-winded passages.Fun read - would love to see the same with tons of maps, just because I'm a nerd like that.
A wonderfully interesting book which begins in ancient naming origins and over time transitions to numerous specific outstanding or intriguing examples, such as Nome, Alaska, which was originally marked on the map as “? Name” because it had none. This then was misread as “Nome” and so it became. “Nome is therefore an authenticated example of the workings of mere error.” I found the early part of the book fascinating, the latter entertaining. If you are at all interested in U.S. place-name nomenclature, Names on the Land is for you.
It isn't a bad book, but it's a bit like reading a dictionary. It gives the history of place names in the U.S., and I love that kind of history. However, I didn't make it past the East coast chapters before I decided I wanted to supplement my reading diet with something plot-driven, and eventually I forgot all about this book on my nightstand. I'll be picking this up again, but for now, I'm just going to say I'm done with it.
A really great book shows us how everything is great and worth to die for
Though Stewart did explain the origin of many names, more or less in historical order, and clearly enjoyed a good story (such as the way that "Wisconsin," through a series of misspellings and displacements, became "Oregon", or the squabbling over the name of Mount Rainier), his real love was the process of naming.
If you like his style, all of these books are still worth reading, and 'Earth Abides' is one of the few pre-1950 science fiction novels to remain perennially in print.
Written back in the 1940s, "Names on the Land" is a collection of stories relating how various places in the United States got their names. Stewart starts out describing how early explorers named natural geographic features and carries the story of place naming through the 20th century.Readers shouldn't expect a single narrative about place naming, but rather a large selection of anecdotes. Stewart describes the naming of many, many places. My favorites include Portland, OR (determined via a coin flip) and Nome, AK (transcribed from "? Name" on map).
Excellent! Informative and interesting all the way through. Stewart displays a powerful command of language and story. The amount of research required to produce this work is mind-boggling and yet after Stewart's distillation, the result is more than readable - it's a joy. He punctuates his straightforward delivery with occasional humor and believable (and likely correct) inferences.The notes are well done too and showcase more of his personality than does the main body.
I'm very happy this book exists, although a newer version or edition might be due at this point. Regardless, if you want to know where the name of every city, state, mountain, river, etc. in the US comes from, and why and how, this is probably the best source.
This was one of those boring books to read before going to sleep.
Here are a few of Stewart's stronger opinions about naming practices:--On the United States of America as a name: "The makeshift establishment of the national name was the worst misfortune in our whole naming-history.
Yet the trouble has never been acute enough to occasion an amendment to the Constitution, and any official change has become less and less likely."--Disdain for timid namers: "In the years following the Civil War a horrible malady called 'good taste' began to rage throughout the United States.
Those suffering from it became artistically timid, insipid, and sterile.In naming, which is a kind of art, the stricken people preferred conventional terms of pale elegance.
In fact, this book is generally about the naming process.
It is not a dictionary of toponyms, but instead a guide through American history and how naming evolved from the first exploration of the now contiguous U.S. through the time of publication: post World War II (and pre-Alaska and Hawai'i statehood).
Most sections are under ten pages.
If a topic only takes three pages, that's what it gets.
If a topic needs more than ten pages, though, that happens as well.
I initially looked for this book due to interest in toponyms that originate from American languages.
Stewart has a storyteller's sensibilities, and it's pleasantly surprising how the book functions as a cover-to-cover read; to only skim for the places with which you are already familiar would do a disservice to the book, and handicap your enjoyment.I'm resisting the urge to supply a list of "And did you know ____ got its name because ____??" given that everyone in my immediate vicinity while I read the book had to endure that anyway.
What's important here, though, is that Stewart doesn't turn this into an encyclopedia of naming trivia, which a lesser author surely would've.
That doesn't sound terribly dazzling, I know, but it is: it's interesting to note where we stopped naming things after presidents, or why a bunch of places in Ohio have names from antiquity.The Matt Weiland-edited 
From the very beginning, Rippey's Names on the Land was a fascinating read, a strange hybrid sort of book covering the areas where history, folklore, and linguistics intersect.
It is a rare and precious thing, for, while it covers our history of naming (and thus an important, though highly underrated, aspect of American history) in an objective and scientific way, the love and enthusiasm which Rippey has for his subject shows through between the lines and makes even the most boring passages seem witty and engaging.
Language lovers and geography geeks will flip for this book, but I'd like to think that the wit and charm of the author -- as well as his wide net, ear for a good story, and connoisseur's curiosity -- would endear him to anyone, at least as a bathroom reader.
Long story short, this book can be summed up by a quote from it: "...I do not like to admit that any name is queer, or perhaps I consider all names to be equally so." If you read a map like a kid a candy store, this book is for you.
True to its title,  Names on the Land  looks at how the country, its states, counties, cities, towns, streets, rivers and mountains were named. Stewart approaches the subject chronologically and uses a series of anecdotes to tell the story behind many of the more obvious landmarks in the USA (including “USA” itself). What we find is that many names are an amalgamation of Native American, Spanish, French, English and Dutch words, changed through translation and mis-translation, spelling errors, a
What we find is that many names are an amalgamation of Native American, Spanish, French, English and Dutch words, changed through translation and mis-translation, spelling errors, and people trying to make sense of a sound spoken in a different language.
Names were also based on heroes, politicians, physical features, events and history all mixed up and changed through their re-telling.
I am of the former camp and enjoyed both the history and the odd twists and turns a name can take before becoming imbedded in the public’s collective mind.
It also seems very thorough, with some good comparison of the historical trends in place naming as well as just a chronicling of what the names are and how they came to be.I appreciate Stewart's contempt for people who replaced solid, if sometimes leaning towards crude, names that reflected the experience of the settlers, with poncy faux-English names like Wildermere.
But as Stewart chronicles the numerous name-changes some settlements in the comparatively young US have undergone it makes me wonder about the number of changes, particularly in areas like the Balkans that have frequently had empires pass across them and back.
Interesting stuff, well-written and good on Stewart for providing extensive notations.

"Once, from eastern ocean to western ocean, the land stretched away without names. Nameless headlands split the surf; nameless lakes reflected nameless mountains; and nameless rivers flowed through nameless valleys into nameless bays. "Men came at last, tribe following tribe, speaking different languages and thinking different thoughts. According to their ways of speech and thought they gave names, and in their generations laid their bones by the streams and hills they had named. But even when tribes and languages had vanished, some of those old names, reshaped, still lived in the speech of those who followed."
As authoritative and fresh as when it was completed in 1944, this is the standard on American toponymy: describing and detailing the waves of name-giving that swept over what was to become the US, from colonial (English, Spanish, Dutch and others) over revolutionary and patriotic (presidents, generals and heroes) to fashionable (Indian, pseudo-Indian, classic Greek and Roman, 'rustic' English, made-up Spanish), each illustrated with a wealth of examples; this from an author with an amazing reach, from history over environmentalism to science fiction (his Earth Abides inspired Stephen King's The Stand).
Absolutely enchanting.
Reads like one giant "just so" story, with magic and myth and the march of time all intertwined.
It's really quite amazing to realize that every name, every single little name that you see on any map, has a storied history behind it, in which you can see the progress of America from Native land to empire, colony to republic, from nation to state, and polity to bureaucracy.
Adds a whole new dimension to seemingly silly debates over "Squaw Peak" vs.
"Piestewa Peak" and the disjunction between Martin Luther King Boulevard (Eugene) and Centennial Avenue (Springfield).
