https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102461.Hellboy_Vol_3
The heat is on!!! This third TPB edition features “Hellboy” #5-6, 12-14, along with a pin-up gallery.The general rating is an average result of individual ratings given to each short story contained here.Creative Team:Creator, Writer & Illustrator: Mike Mignola FINALLY THIS THING HEATED I have to admit that I wasn’t that impressed on the first two TPBs, Seed of Destruction & Wake the Devil. They were well done, but they lacked of character development and since it was the beginning of t
Ireland, 1961.Hellboy goes into a kinda demolished old tower to find a dangerous fairy who isn’t affected by iron, in fact the monster wears a pair of iron shoes (not like horses’ but actually shoes made of iron!).This was the only dissapointing in the TPB, Mignola done it just to fill the remnant pages of the original comic book where the previous short story was re-published, but definitely is too brief to have real time to enjoy it.
Yes, I guess what you may think, but this isn’t about madness, it’s about evil.Mignola adapted folklore stuff into a Christmas story with a creepy good ambiance and development.
This is the book that forever sold me on how cool Hellboy is. I never looked back.
I'm really getting into Hellboy now.
I wasn't quite sure I was liking it for anything more than it's clever use of history, its esoteric occult or science bits, or everyone's acceptance of a big red demon carrying on paranormal investigations in the fifties and sixties.
(How does no one mind this???)However, by this volume, I'm now emotionally invested as well.
It's just a little, but it's something.
I love the Fae and the Golem bits the most.
I wasn't quite sure I'd get into all these tiny vignettes as much as I'd have preferred a good solid arc, but I did.
Read this weekend most of HELLBOY: THE CHAINED COFFIN AND OTHERS, and adored it. It's embarrassing how late I am to loving Hellboy.
I really enjoyed each story in this collection. I just wish Kate and every other woman in theses stories hadn't been damsels in distress.The artwork continues to impress.
Even so, I look forward to a return to the main storyline.6/19/12: With this third volume, I feel the limitations of reading the comics in bound form instead of as single issues.
The stories are good, but some refer to previous issues that in this version were printed later.
My favorite is probably "The Wolves of August." I was very surprised to learn from Mignola's notes that in "Almost Colossus" he was planning to kill off Liz Sherman because he never knew what to do with her.
Good thing he worked that out, because she's my favorite.
I think this may be the volume that's gotten me hooked to Hellboy.
I love the way Mignola uses folklore as a starting point to his stories.
(And I loved the notes he added to this collection.) Most of the stories here are very short, but none of them felt too short, or stretched out, for that matter.
The character of Hellboy makes for a great lead in these sorts of stories: professional and personable.
My one criticism is how Mignola handled Liz. He acknowledges in his notes that he didn't know what to do with her, and that's a shame.
I liked her when she showed up previously, so it was a shame.
Hellboy spends much of the story with the corpse strapped to his back, bickering with it while he deadpans his way through encounters with just about every creature in Irish mythology.
Several of the other stories are key to Hellboy's own mythology, as they reveal the details of his conception and explain the origins of his feud with the Baba Yaga .
"The Wolves of St. August" is a visually stunning werewolf story, with a couple of my all-time favorite Mignola panels.
The final story (the excellently-titled "Almost Colossus") is a must-read for fans of Roger from the BPRD books.
While Hellboy has a great big plot that runs through all of the 12 main volumes, several of those volumes, indicated by "and other stories" in the title, collect short stand-alone comics that Mike Mignola has written for many different kinds of magazines, anthologies and comic books over the years.
It collects some of the best Hellboy stories, such as The Corpse, Iron Shoes, The Baba Yaga, The Chained Coffin, Almost Colossus — all of them absolutely great on their own and, at the same time, crucial to the whole Hellboy universe mythology.
It's a phenomenal read, and the first truly great volume of Hellboy — ant the first two were already quite good!
Though this is made up for by a very old-school family story set during Christmas but with a Halloween vibe to it; a wonderful composition consisting of a village, an abbey, an aristocratic family and a curse (because there is nothing quite like an old-fashioned spook!); as well as probably the most touchingly romantic story I have ever read (with the most touchingly romantic line spoken!), presumably doubling as a little origin gem.
The novelty was that these stories range from a double-issue to barely two dozens of panels.
Hellboy 3 is like Hellboy 4: (or should that be the other way around?), where at the beginning of each section there are notes from author/illustrator, Mike Mignola, on his inspirations for the stories.
Interestingly, Mr. Mignola said he was originally going to kill off Liz Sherman in this story, but then art director Glen Murakami talked him out of it.Overall, folktales and legends intertwined with great suspense up to the end where then Hellboy just kicks major butt against some nasty demons and monsters.
The short story format works perfectly for Hellboy.
Not only does it allow Mignola to explore a larger amount of folklore but it suits the investigative world of the characters perfectly.
Each one is fantastic but my favorites were "The Corpse", "A Christmas Underground", "The Wolves of St. August" and "Almost Colossus".
"The Corpse" more than any had a very memorable feel to it.
She is one of your main characters.
The reason I enjoyed "The Wolves at St. August" so much was because of a few memorable images, the interactions between Hellboy and Kate and the link to Hellboy's past.

Not Hellboy to me, no Nazi's no memorable villains just random monsters. This is a collection of small stories and comes across as filler.No way an essential read to the series I would advise to skip it and save your time and money.
Still adore the art style and the characters tbqh! I nyoomed through a bunch of these (in those library compendium/bindup editions) and forgot to add them in on here, so... Doing that now lmao!
cool artwork and exactly the kind of myth adventure vibe I'm wanting from Hellboy. simplistic but rich in imagination and detail.
I personally think it's a great start for somebody like myself who hasn't read "Hellboy" before.Mike Mignola's story notes accompany the long out-of-print one-shots "Wolves of Saint August" and "The Corpse and the Iron Shoes," as well as "A Christmas Underground." "The Chained Coffin," is featured in color for the first time, and "Almost Colossus," with new story pages.
This 176-page collection includes a pinup gallery featuring Kevin Nowlan, Duncan Fegredo, and others, as well as an all-new tale.
He is all of these and more while uttering few words between blasts of combative, bloody, violence in a nighted world of ancient evil and devious purpose.Book Details: Title Hellboy: The Chained Coffin and OthersAuthor Mike MignolaReviewed By Purplycookie
The Chained Coffin and Others is different from the previous two volumes in the Hellboy saga.
One such example is "The Chained Coffin," which stems from an Irish folktale the author once read.Like the first two collections, this volume is beautifully illustrated and wonderfully scripted.
In fact, there are several short, wonderfully dark tales that any fan of folklore or fairy tales will love.Overall, this collection was highly enjoyable, easing off the familiar plot of the previous volumes and venturing into short-story.
Still, even these short tales add to the complex character of Hellboy and his world, and I was most impressed with Mignola's work.
I didn't love the first couple stories but then the last two were fantastic.

It's taken me some time to actually come around to Hellboy, but I'm glad I finally did.This volume continues to collect the various misadventures of the eponymous character and his cohorts, and it does a largely decent job of conveying Hellboy's ideals and personality through ultimately little dialogue from him. In the end, a punch has the same weight in describing him as any sentence.
Good collection of short stories, things finally start to heat up for HB. The following list ranks the stories from my favorites to least favorites.Almost ColossusThe Wolves of Saint AugustA Christmas UndergroundThe Baba YagaThe Chained CoffinThe CorpseIron Shoes
Outstanding. When the stories get shorter, Mignola's writing gets more charming and rivals the excellence of his art. It reminds me of some of the best of Stan Sakai's Usagi Yojimbo work, where the creator is really on a roll in all facets of the stories short and long.
Carísimo en Arkana cómics Mar del Plata. Ni un peso me gasto en esto por más que sea buena la historia, además de lo entrañable que es Hellboy y demás personajes.
Değişik bir espri anlayışı var yazarın ve ben bunu çok sevdim! Karakter çok tanıdığım bir karakter değil o yüzden aşırı heyecanlı gelmedi cilt bana ama hikâyelerin başlangıç noktalarını çok beğendim!
I liked the prince as Mignola described him in the original folktale (in the notes, again), so making him someone for Hellboy to fight just felt a little silly.
I like that Mignola was attracted to these stories, and I think he manages to change them enough to make them good Hellboy stories while still keeping enough of the original tales to do justice to their character.
Roger's conflict is palpable, and the story benefits for it.I don't think that these collections of shorts are as good as the main Hellboy volumes, but if you're a fan of the series or very interested in mythology and folklore, you'll still want to add this one to your collection.
Dafür zu sorgen, dass ein Wechselbalg wieder rückgetauscht wird, dass ein verspukter Ort endlich wieder betreten werden kann oder eine Familie nach monströser Entführung wieder zusammengeführt wird - Hellboy ist auch für die sentimentalen Momente zu haben.
Viel Folklore, viel Schwarz, viel Gemäuer, und noch mehr Atmosphäre: Gerade in diesen Kurzgeschichten, mehr noch als in den langen Erzählbögen, die über mehrere Bände gehen, zeigt sich Mignolas Kunst, uns einen kumpelhaften Teufel so nahe zu bringen, dass man ihn einfach liebhaben muss.
Für so manche alte, fast vergessene Mär ist Hellboy wie ein Jungbrunnen, der diese alten Legenden nochmal so richtig zum Funkeln bringt.
This volume has more than one story in it.
One story hints (pretty big hints, if you ask me) at Hellboy's origin.
What's really quite cool about the stories is that Mike Mignola has gotten inspiration from folktales and each of the stories are loosely based on some of the tales he has read.
For example, the first story has the corpse that Hellboy carries on his back.
I really love paranormal stories and folktales so seeing Hellboy go after different creatures/bad guys from folktales is pretty cool.
And so when there is a glance of his past, it's a nice treat.Great volume.
the Hellboy books have such a unique feeling and i think the chained coffin really expresses it.
the corpse especially is one of my favourite Hellboy stories because it really captures the feel of the Hellboy universe.
the way Mignola draws, the colours and the dialogue create this perfectly eerie atmosphere that i love, i could read this book hundreds of times and get the same spooky feeling.
almost colossus has this huge, grand feeling that balances with very real emotions, which is another thing Hellboy does so well.
the chained coffin is such a well done book, there wasn't a story i didn't love.
I really enjoyed this 3rd volume of Hellboy.
Instead of a book long story, it's a collection of shorter stories, inspired by fables/legends/folk tales.
Hellboy comes across as caring a lot about the welfare of others, and willing to do anything to save humanity from evil/darkness.
There's also a good story picking up from what happened in Vol. 2, which is nice, as we were left somewhat hanging.All around, the art is great, the tone is great, and there still manages to be just enough lightness/humour from Hellboy to keep things from being too dark.All around enjoyable, makes me very eager for Vol. 4.
