https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5510384-tricks
Great, just what I need…a 600+ page book and hardly enough time to read.
Once I started reading, I couldn’t put the book down.
Tricks is a story about five deeply troubled teenagers, all from different areas, backgrounds, and family situations who end up falling into prostitution.
At the beginning, I was a little frustrated at how short their stories were and was afraid that I would not be able to distinguish one character from the next.
I wish my own parents could have read a book like this, just to see how their own behavior and actions could irreparably damage a child’s life.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comDamn. All of Ellen's books are rough as hell. I love them, but they get right into your bones and tear you apart! I have to share an excerpt from the book that I'm all too familiar with:  Some PeopleNever find the right kind of love. You know, the kind that stealsyour breathe away, like diving into snowmelt.The kind that jolts your heart,sets it beating apace, an anxioushiccuping of hummingbird wings.The kind that makes every terribleminute apart feel like hou
Some PeopleNever find the right kind of love.
I feel so bad for these kids, it's so hard to be a child.
Each of these children have a shitty home life, but in different ways.One has a mother who is a hooker and there are 6 children which includes one of them.
One child is gay, but can't tell their father or they will be shunned until the day the father reads a letter and kicks the kid out.
these kids are all on the run and they all in up in the most horrible of situations, hence the name of the book.
I wish I felt the same way about "Tricks."Hopkins has established herself as a crusader of tough teen issues - drug use, suicide, abuse.
Long story short, too often I felt I was being emotionally manipulated rather than truly touched by the characters' plight.
I read another "issue book" not so long ago - "Living Dead Girl." Alice felt real to me, I never truly believed in Seth, Cody, Whitney, and Eden, only Ginger and her story had some authenticity.
But it took way too long to get there and by that point in the story I was already tired of the book.
So painful, oh so very painful.
Her mother and father are both heavily religious folk, her dad being the lead priest of their local church, and her mom being the trophy wife that he's always proud to come home to.
So when Seth decides to act on his urges, he comes to face to face with a nice man named Loren.
Although she would probably be better off without her mom and sister, she still has her loving dad and caring boyfriend Lucas to come home to every day.
With his mom out of commision and a younger brother that gets sent to juvy, Cody has to find a way to pay the bills somehow, right?Gahhh I loved this book.
I'm not sure whether it's Hopkins writing style or subject matter that shakes you to your core, or both, but either way, it's nothing short of spectacular and I know that days from now, I will still be thinking about this book.
I suppose it was Hopkins's genius to throw in such a gray area as Cody.This book is not an easy read, it’s vivid and graphic and deals with a very risqué subject matter but I would encourage everyone to read it, especially teens.
I’m amazed this made YA standards, but thankful that it did, because teens are the very ones who should read this book.
Naturally I loved it so much that I bought the ebook as soon as I finished reading (as well as the sequel!) and quickly re-highlighted all of my favourite first read passages before agonising about what I could write about this book without wandering into spoiler territory.Trigger warnings include sexual assault, gambling, abandonment, alcohol and drug use, murder, homophobia, seriously dodgy parenting, religion used as a weapon and probably a whole range of heartache I’ve already repressed.
I don’t think there’s an Ellen book I’ve read where I haven’t come away changed by the experience.
3 Stars.I liked this one. I appreciated all the different narratives going on in the book although I did wish that some of the characters stories would just have keep going. I found myself not wanting to be interrupted by some of the other characters stories, not that they weren't interesting just I found I connected, was more intrigued and got so into some stories more than the others but, as always I love Ellen Hopkins style of writting in verse and the depth I find in her characters.
And maybe one day I'll do that, but right now it isn't looking likely.I've complained about Hopkins using too many viewpoints before, but this time I just can't bring myself to complain about the five (five!) viewpoints in Tricks.
But I didn't really connect like I have with some of her other books.
I went back and forth on the star rating for this book more times than I can count.
3.5 stars sounds right, for a good book with a topic that needed to be covered, that probably just hit me at the wrong time.
Read this in one day holy fuck I'm S O B B I N G I can't stop crying I can't get my thoughts together on fuck fuck fuck FUCK
And when we Woke, he ordered meAway."*trigger warning for rape, depression.Tricks is, in true Ellen Hopkins fashion, a tough book to read.
It follows five young teenagers as they explore sex for the first time and their eventual downfall into prostitution.
This book gets progressively harder to read the further you get into it.
Hopkins captures the desperation and bleakness of each situation with intense clarity.
I first read this book sound 7 years ago and rates in a four star, however I am changing my review to 5 stars.
It deals with teenage prostitution in harsh light and will most definitely leave you feeling disgusted.
I’m in awe.In Tricks, there were five main characters whose perspective we read from - three girls and two guys.
She said that 'Tricks looks at a handful of reasons that might drive a young adult to sell his or her body.
This is exactly the kind of book that young people should read and I think that parents could learn a lot from it as well.
Tricks is definitely one of those books that is going to stay with me and I’m both looking forward to and dreading the next Ellen Hopkins book that I decide to read.This review is also on my blog
So much emotion comes to the forefront when I read one of her books.In this story we journey with 5 teenagers, Eden, Seth, Whitney, Ginger, and Cody.
They have experienced horrendous people, acts, and situations in their lives that I could never even imagine being witness to.
So many bad elements surround each of them pushing them to limits unknown.The characters are all so very real in this story that it is hard to choose any favorites.
Please be warned though, this book has many triggers that could affect some people, so read at your own risk.
Frankly, the descriptions of the rapes, kids prostituting themselves, etc, were just too much for me...I literally became nauseated.
It's the same feeling I got after reading Living Dead Girl.
Yes, these are characters, but the fact that you KNOW it really happens to children disturbs you on so many levels that it is unbearable.
It's also something that you feel very helpless about.
I'm not naive enough to believe that things like this aren't happening every day.
I know they do.
I work with kids that molestation and rape have been a part of their lives.
I absolutely loved this book and I have an absolute love for all of her books! This book is by far the best of her works that I have read. I can't wait until this fall when the sequel comes out. All the characters and plot were amazing. I just don't know what to say because she always makes me speechless.
In typical Hopkins fashion, she spends the entire book creating salacious details and very little time with the consequences of her characters actions. Skip it and hid it from young readers!
“When all choice is taken from you, life becomes a game of survival.”“Tricks” is the second book that I have read by Ellen Hopkins and once again, she left me feeling so many different emotions.
I think that this would be a good chapter book if these teens knew each other, but they all live in different parts of the country.
The author of my book is always writing stories about what could happen in real life.
The theme of all of her book is just about real-life events.
"When all choice is taken from you, life becomes a game of survival." I was a bit skeptical when I found this for cheap at a used bookstore. All I've heard of Ellen Hopkins is glowing praise, but I wasn't sure whether I would enjoy reading a book written in verse, but her subject matters won me over. I am so glad I finally read this. The sequel is already on my Amazon wishlist, and I'm on the lookout for more of her works. Turns out that part of what makes her books so emotional and heartfelt i
Their endings were not happy enough for my HEA loving self.) (hide spoiler)]I've read quite a few books on situations such as Whitney's, and it still kills me to read them.
I also loved how she stayed true to her convictions to not be her mother, no matter what.) (hide spoiler)]Unlike the rest, I have never read anything like Cody's decline.
His ending was also not okay.) (hide spoiler)]It you love verse, darker novels, or just books that will keep you up late and stress you out as you read them, this is perfect for you.
Tricks tells the stories of 5 teens who find themselves, due to various situations, leading dangerous lives in prostitution and "turning tricks".
I felt the book was overly focused on the sexual scenes and less on the actual stories.One thing that may have made this book more enjoyable/tolerable was to tell each character's story straight through, making the book almost like a collection of "short stories" of teens who have been in this situation.
The start and stop of each character's story made it more difficult to get to know each character and it made their individual stories too choppy.So would I still recommend Ellen Hopkins's books to readers?
I don’t consider myself a Hopkins fan; I’ve read many of her books and hated most of them.
But I actually genuinely love this book.
This book was ultimately hopeful, which is very different from many of her others.
She’s so realistic and she feels like a completely real person.
(hide spoiler)]The other characters stand out as well, although not to the same degree as Ginger (for me personally).
Whitney comes off as whiny and annoying for much of the book, yet Hopkins gets you to feel immense sympathy for her.
She wants to be loved, and that leads to her downfall.
Five teens share the traumatic events that lead them to prostituting their bodies.
In the course of the story, most of them will lose their virginity in traumatic ways, get disowned by their parents or simply fall into the vicious circle of drugs.
But once you spiral down into the world of prostitution, can you just as easily get out?I'd never do that is something you stop saying as you grow up.
being cast aside by a parent, rape, poverty -- anything that threatens to permanently remove a smile off your face.
Hopkins writing style (verses) is a lot more effective than Crank, perhaps due to the shared spotlight between the five teens.
Similar to Ellen Hopkins’s other books, this book is written in prose. It is written from the perspectives of five teenagers across the US, who, for various reasons, find themselves entering the world of prostitution and the downward spiral that brought them there.
When you sell your body,you also sell what's inside.Piece by piece, you sell your soul.  Tricks has a ton of glowing reviews, so I was expecting to enjoy this one when I picked this up. To add to that, I just recently finished Impulse and really liked it. However, this one fell flat for me. I tried so hard to like it, but I rarely felt sympathy for the characters and the plots all kind of ran together to the point where I forgot who was who.This book has five points of view. Five. Usually, I w
I tried so hard to like it, but I rarely felt sympathy for the characters and the plots all kind of ran together to the point where I forgot who was who.This book has five points of view.
In Tricks, all of the stories kind of blend together, and I had to constantly flip back to see who was currently speaking.Besides that, I never really liked any of the characters.
It was hard to like some of the characters.
The poems at the beginning of each POV didn't sound like something a teenager could write.
Ive read only one of Ellen Hopkins books before (Impulse) and was blown away by it.
Besides the fact that her books are written in prose, Hopkins brings out the purest, rawest part of the human condition.
The story flows from bad to worse and even through all the horrible decisions and horrifying experiences, you can't help but root for the main characters.
Not every teenager has a house to call home, or a loving person in their life.
I respect that Hopkins has the respect and decency to open the general publics eyes to these facts.
Wow, I honestly just noticed the amount of pages this book has. I read it in 3 days! I flew through it, because the chapters were so short. Also, I fell in love with Ellen Hopkins' writing style. It was once again confirmed I love these kind of poetic writings. I have to be honest here: I did like this book, but I forgot what was going on with each of the characters every single time. When I saw their name pop up again, I was like: 'Wait, who was this again?' The characters don't cross paths ve
Also, I fell in love with Ellen Hopkins' writing style.
It was once again confirmed I love these kind of poetic writings.
I have to be honest here: I did like this book, but I forgot what was going on with each of the characters every single time.
When I saw their name pop up again, I was like: 'Wait, who was this again?' The characters don't cross paths very much either.
The ending of this book did make me tear up, because I found it to be a bit of a happy ending for all of these characters.
My favorite books by Ellen Hopkins, by far, are her Kristina books.
Those, in my opinion, far surpass anything else I've read by her, including this.I don't mean to say this isn't good - it's great.
I can truly understand why teens feel the ability to relate to her.
I read it in under a day and would have been much faster with a little more down time.
Ellen Hopkins is probably the most powerful writer in her class today.
Our teens are lucky to her her writing to go to when they feel the need.
Three words; heartbreaking, depressing & nightmareI had a really hard time getting through this book.
I was disgusted, I was appalled, I was depressed.I couldn't definitely feel a emotional change in myself the week I read this book.
It took me a long time to want to read something again...
and I just wanted something light and fluffy.Hopkins is a powerful writer and I give her kudos for writing about these issues, I know I could never do it.
I can't imagine the state you would feel after writing something like this.
Tricks is a powerful read.
'Twas a bit hard to follow, being told through the perspectives of five different teenagers. I could always remember what was going on with the first two characters, Eden and Seth, but the others got mixed up and forgotten about in my heard sometimes.Overall though, very good book, and it's definitely something everyone should read. It really opens your eyes to some of the horrors that exist in the world. And as always, I loved Ellen Hopkins's writing.
Oh man this book was intense. Was a nightmare! Pretty sure I need therapy after reading this book. This was definitely a hard book to read and I felt really uncomfortable, sick, saddened and somehow I just couldn't stop reading. But I need to go read a happy book now. DAMN
Knowing more about the world made this book have so much more sense to me...How as a teenager, I related to the characters and now as a young adult, it was like the innocence of youth.
Like there's things I know now that I wish I knew when I was a teenager and most of the time, you question the whole thing when you're young because you're so innocent and still oblivious to the rest of the world.
I thought that was extremely fascinating how the same book changed my views as a teenager and as a young adult.
