https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121198.The_Thundering_Herd
I grew up with original editions of Zane Gray on my grandmother's bookshelf and then those same editions moved to my own shelves and with great guilt now, I admit I never read them.
But seeing this title and cover, I grabbed it and read it and loved it!
I don't know if this title was one of the ones I grew up seeing, but it was an amazing read of the Texas country buffalo hide hunters and the subsequent tragic engagements with native American tribes.
What I can't figure out is why did I not read author until now.
The Thundering Herd is comprised of bright purple prose, vivid imagery, an exciting plot, some good characters and a predictable ending. It's a lot of fun but it makes me wonder what Zane Grey might have accomplished if he had taken his time with each book and worked with a good editor.
In the past, I've only resorted to reading Zane Grey when Louis LaMour wasn't readily available.
However, I've grown to really appreciate his much more sublime and realistic stories.
This story wasn't only a well written western, it also told the tail of our wholesale slaughter of the American buffalo and our war with American Indians (Cherokee, Kiowa, Arapaho, and others) The hero is actually a buffalo hunter who fights the Cherokee and other tribes.
Zane does a great job of representing the life of the west, and the bloody history involved with "winning it"I'll be picking up more of Zane Grey.
His stories aren't so predictable and fantastic.
(Sorry, Louis.)
Ok, I liked this way more than expected. My grandfather was always trying to get me to read Zane Grey, and I was never impressed. This was actually recommended to me by my brother who is not a reader. It puts an interesting perspective on the widespread slaughter of the buffalo. We see a range of motives for those involved in the process.
I like this book so far. I dont know what tom an his mistress type deal will will do.
One of his best. The story of the incredible thundering herd of buffalo that was a key indicator of the Western plains.
The adventures of buffalo skinners in the old West. This is one of my favorite westerns by Grey. It is filled with historical information and lots of details about buffalo.
