https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18765.I_Claudius
Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus (Claudius to his embarrassed family), born in Lyon, in what is now France, a sickly, lame, twitching, stutterer, a nonentity, thought an idiot by his relatives, the most prominent in ancient Rome, Julius Caesar began their more than century long reign, as the rulers of the vast, expanding, Roman Empire.
Claudius father was a famous Roman general, Germanicus, gaining glory in Germany, winning battle after battle, until dying in a mysterious way, his mother Antonia, a very influential woman, daughter of Livia, the wife of the Emperor Augustus Caesar, Julius's great- nephew.
But after reading I, Claudius, I think that the average Roman citizen’s chief entertainment probably came from watching what the imperial family did to each other.
Shunned and forgotten by most of the family, Claudius becomes a historian and scholar who documents the terrible things that happen around him as everyone seeks to gain and keep power.Over his life, Claudius will have to deal with three emperors; the noble Augustus, the sullen and paranoid Tiberius and the crazy Caligula.
His grandmother Livia, who married Augustus, would ruthlessly manipulate and destroy generations of her own family through various schemes and murders to make sure that her son, Tiberius, would one day inherit the throne.
Compelling, humorous, entertaining and even at time times deeply disturbing, this traces the peripheral rise of an unlikely Caeser. Historical fiction at its best, Graves provides an in-depth, behind the scenes look at early Roman Imperial intrigue. First published in 1934, this has been selected as one of the finest English language works in the twentieth century.
i can't tell you why.I Claudius reviewed by Ian Graye :You've seen The Sopranos, so you think you know about gangsters.But Imperial Rome didn't get its reputation by organising knitting circles.No, it didn't.Claudius became emperor accidentally.
I sure don't.I Claudius reviewed by Karen Brissette:YOU GUYS, IT IS FINISHED!
I Claudius reviewed by PrajProlonged use of both valium and absolute power may do unusual things to people's libido but who is going to draw such a moral from the romping morass which we can tinopen here in the untangleble tale of the nincompoop emperor.
But in the case of I, Claudius hailed as one of the best pieces of historical fiction written to date, the so-called lie is either heightened or degraded, depends on how you see it, into a dramatic tale of cunning, deceit, depravity and the glories of ancient Rome chalked with enough back-stabbing, affairs, incest, assassinations, and debauchery you’d doubt whether you’ve unearthed an ancient tabloid.
As a result, the works are highly sifted and selected to provide particular, no matter how unlikely, versions of the events that took place.There's nothing to suggest that Claudius, Livia, Augustus, or any of the other characters thought many of the things that Graves puts in their minds.
Still, compared to his nephew Caligula, who made his horse a Senator and had entire sections of the crowd thrown to the lions out of boredom, Claudius can not help but seem refreshingly sane and humane.Claudius’s grandmother, Livia, is depicted as a devious schemer and poisoner, but Claudius even managed to be fair to her.
He has Claudius’s brother, Germanicus, say, “The Germans...are the most insolent and boastful nation in the world when things go well with them, but once they are defeated they are the most cowardly and abject.
I, Claudius, however, is excellent historical fiction.
Yo, ClaudioThe review I really have in mind will be attempted for this book only after I finish reading Claudius the God (to quench the burning curiosity of how this ‘Clau-Clau-Claudius’, a man, who in the first shock of being made emperor had this outrageous thought come rushing to his mind - "So, I'm Emperor, am I?
He was though living on Majorca, which is not quite Capri and if isolated and obsessing over his muse not quite in Tiberian style.In my imagination then I have to place I, Claudius back in the 1930s, a few years after this memoir of the First World War Goodbye to all that and put this portrait of an imagined secret life of an Imperial family with its incest, non-normative elective sexual activities some of which remain illegal in various countries, and family murders to gain or maintain power mentally in the context of the official rigid Victorianism of the Britain of George V.Is I, Claudius just a fictional interpretation of the really already quite turbulent Julio-Claudian dynasty, or is it worth thinking about it as the continuation of Goodbye to all that?
- Ave, Imperator!- A-a-a-a-ave Manny. Heri o-o-o-ccurabamus?- Parodis Paulii Bryantii erat.- A-a-a-absit invidia. Latinam loquitis? - Googlam Translatam utiliso.- Non i-i-i-intelligo. - Malefice! Logicus coprae est.- P-p-parodis Bryantii melius erat.- Bastarde!
His two interests throughout the story are largely restricted to the realms of historical recountal and simple survival, as his family discredits, banishes, poisons, and pushes to suicide any member they deem in their way.
Or I suppose the matter would have fallen to Graves, seeing as this for all its evidence of substantial research is a work of fiction.For the potential of deification works its way into the heart of every major player, beginning with Augustus' boasts of his relations to the deified Julius Caeser, and ending with Caligula's assumption of the role of any god or goddess, a decision dictated only by his increasingly errant and murderous behavior.
Best book I'd read in years.
I challenge anyone to read 'I, Claudius' who doesn't at least begin the less-favored sequel (Claudius the God) at its conclusion.In my opinion, this book should be required reading in high school world history courses.
I finished this book and began a year-long dive into all the Roman history I could find, culminating in a vacation to the Eternal City in November '06.
This is a good example of something I think of as the Nero Rule.
There are lots of cool stories in history - did you know how Alexander the Great died?
So responsible history tends to be a little more boring, but if you want to be sure about what happened, there you go.
I, Claudius is like a master class in Nero Rule History: if it probably didn't happen, it's in here.It's basically impossible to keep all the characters straight, and after trying really hard to do so I guess my advice to you would be don't bother.
A fictional autobiography of a Roman Emperor23 February 2015 Well, here is another historical novel that I actually quite enjoyed, but that may be because, unlike most historical novels that deal with fictional characters placed in an historical time period, this deals with real characters, namely the Imperial Family from the establishment of the empire to the ascension of Claudius to the throne. As can be seen by the title, the main character is the emperor Claudius before he became emperor (th
A fictional autobiography of a Roman Emperor23 February 2015	Well, here is another historical novel that I actually quite enjoyed, but that may be because, unlike most historical novels that deal with fictional characters placed in an historical time period, this deals with real characters, namely the Imperial Family from the establishment of the empire to the ascension of Claudius to the throne.
He suggests it is because he gives us a good sweep of the early imperial period, something that Augustus and Tiberius don't, and Nero and Calligula are simply too obsessed with power to be able to adequately write from their point of view.
This was fun reading! It reminded me of the 'A Song of Fire and Ice' series. Claudius, is a stammering lame fellow whose disabilities and weaknesses bring him both mockery and his salvation in a family plagued with scheming, deceit, betrayal, poisoning, the lust for power and the like. The humour and action in the book makes it a great page turner and Livia has become one of my favourite villains of all time.
Uma narrativa histórica que aborda o período contrurbado do Império Romano.Roma descrita por Cláudio, desprezada e visto pela sua família como um bobo e imbecil.
Através dos seus olhos exploramos o reinado dos imperadores Augusto, Tibério e Calígula.
Germânico, o sábio imperador Augusto e a sua malvada mulher Lívia nos supreendem com a sua audácia.
Cláudio torna-se muito mais do que a caricatura que fazem dele, sobrevive ao sadismo de Tibério e a loucura de Calígula por saber manobrar magnificamente o jogo do poder.
A sua cultura, o seu conhecimento e seu sentido de humor faz dele a figura mais trascendente da época dos imperadores.
Tarih kitabı olmasına rağmen öğretici ama sıkıcı değil ve kurgu olmasına rağmen yavan bir kitap değil. Kitap boyunca - özellikle konuya merakı olanların ilgisini ayakta tutmayı başarıyor. Yazarın mizahi anlatımı da oldukça etkileyici.
It's generally accepted that I, Claudius is one of best Roman historical novels ever written.
Ironically Claudius was probably the most normal member of his family.There's not much here about military campagnes, the topic is touched but not in any detail.This is more about the hunger of power and the excesses that people are prepared to go to achieve it.
Achieving power is only half of the battle.
Holding on to it is the other half.Prepare for a blood bath.Highly recommended for lovers of historical fiction.
No pude haber tomado una mejor decisión al respecto.En esta magnífica novela Robert Graves nos traslada a la primera época del Imperio Romano, si bien los inicios de la época imperial ya han pasado, estamos en el germen de aquello que llegó a ser el mismo con posterioridad.
En puridad, salvo por las crónicas que han sobrevivido de ese tiempo, no tenemos forma de conocer muchas cosas, imagínense si ya resulta difícil la escritura de un libro bien documentado sobre eventos ocurridos cincuenta años atrás cuanto más lo será respecto a una época tan remota como la del Imperio Romano.
In 1977 (oh my, how time flies), Masterpiece Theater presented a BBC production of I, Claudius.
The production included the events of both of Graves Claudius novels and featured a cast that would include some of the best actors of the century, among them Derek Jacobi, an unforgettable Claudius.
After watching it, I read Robert Graves novel from which its name was derived, but never got around to the second half of the story, Claudius the God. Fast forward to today, and I am at last revisiting the first novel in anticipation of reading the second.What an amazing piece of historical fiction this is!
The book narrative is in the first-person, as if Claudius were writing his autobiography, complete with Homeric references and Latin vocabulary.
Although its stated purpose is of a biography, the story is rich with many historical figures related to the Julio-Claudian family line.
He himself was a poet as well as a great novelist.The detailed story can be overwhelming with the number of characters presented and their genealogy, so my recommendation is to have a Julian-Claudian family tree reference handy.
This book has become a favourite and, in practice, my paragon for historical fiction, I have yet to find another one quite like it.
I am a fan of anything to do with the Roman Empire.
As the intention must obviously have been, seeing as the point of view is from Claudius writing a history, this book is heavy on the facts and chronicles of events.
Though it is written with a personal opinion on the characters, as Claudius is their contemporary.
It was engrossing and captivating, however I did find myself getting a little confused about the family tree after a bit.
Definitely a great way to soak up a little information about the Romans and while away a few afternoons of summer.
If anyone asks me to summarise this book, I will just be able to quote names - Augustus, Livia, Claudius, Julia, Germanicus, Drusilla, Urgullania (not sure of this one though), Tiberius, Caligula, Jullilla, and a few others.
But who belongs to whom, who hates whom, who fathered/mothered whom, and what is the final tally - my feeble mind remembers not.Some day, I am sure I will again read a book on Rome.
hem soyağacındaki isim benzerlikleri, hem de akraba evlilikleri nedeniyle oldukça karmaşık olabilecek bir konuyu çok keyifli ve akıcı anlatmış yazar.
bu anlamda biraz zorluyor ama zamanla alışıyorsunuz elbette, zaten birkaç imparatorun dönemini kapsayan bir anlatı olduğu için artık o isimde beş kişi de olsa dönem itibariyle hangi isim olduğunu anlayabiliyorsunuz filan...
hem bittiği yer itibariyle bir bütün, hem de devamını oldukça merak ediyorsunuz -500 sayfalık böyle yorucu bir romanın ardından elimde hazır bulunsa devamına hemen başlardım hissini bana her seri vermiyor açıkçası.
tarih ve/veya roma severlerin mutlaka okumasını tavsiye ederim diyerek noktalayayım, biraz ucuz roma bileti bakıp kederlenmek istiyorum zira.
I read somewhere (probably Wikipedia) that Graves only wrote this because he needed cash, and it’s so clear.
It reads like this: “Early the next year, early 19 AD, the last harvest in Egypt was not good, but there was plenty of corn stored from years before in granaries.
Concerned by the corn famine, Tiberius went to Egypt and made a public complaint against the Senate.” What, exactly, am I supposed to care about there?
Dieses Buch sollte man auf jeden Fall so gut es geht am Stück lesen, sonst ist es die reine Qual, denn "I,Claudius" ist eigentlich keine Geschichte sondern eher eine endlose Aneinanderreihung von geschichtlichen Anekdoten, die teilweise historisch belegt und teilweise fiktiv sind.
PS: die Lektüre war für mich Vergleichbar mit Bill Brysons "Eine kurze Geschichte von fast allem", das ich irgendwann aufgegeben hatte, weil es so detailreich war.
Super geschrieben und unterhaltsam aber nach dreißig Seiten hatte ich die ersten zehn schon wieder vergessen.
It doesn’t take long to realise that “civilisation” is rather a misnomer (one sort of knows that already, of course, especially from the gladiators and other “entertainments”), for though there is the writing of history, philosophy, theatre, and the arts, there are constant power struggles (from subtler ones to the far more overt), conspiracies, and murders—and these are just the more benign events compared to the complete madness that some of the Emperors—Tiberius once he is freed of Livia’s power, and Caligula, pretty much throughout his life as one comes to realise—unleash on people.
It has much of the complex plotting, political positioning, warring and double crossing of that show, with a bit of incest and poisoning thrown in for good measure.
A lot of poisoning actually.
Also all the us-es can be confusing to keep track of; himus married herus and gave birth to thisus or thatus but also adopted whatshisfaceus who her son by another guyus (actually that really is one.) It's worth stickin with it I think, just for Caligula who is one of histories great, terrible and I'm ashamed to say, occasionally pretty funny fruit loops.
Think Charlie Sheen post meltdown, times a billion, elected President.
Absolutely one of the worst books I ever read. I will never understand its popularity. Historical fiction at its worst. No themes, no depth, no undertones. Graves simply regurgitates facts and characters from 1st Century Roman high society.
That makes Claudius a particularly enticing figure to speculate about, and perhaps embellish a little, but Robert Graves instead uses Claudius as a convenient narrator who happens to live throughout the turbulent years of Augustus, Tiberius, and Caligula.
In the introduction to Claudius the God and His Wife Messalina, Graves makes a point to say that his reviewers have accused him of simply regurgitating Suetonius and Tacitus, but he also uses many other writers like Josephus, Seneca, and Claudius himself to create a narrative that is as historically accurate as possible.
Since Livia is the catalyst for so many deaths or events in the book, Graves has to write a scene where she reveals everything to Claudius for inclusion in his history.
While it was less of a page-turner knowing all the twists and intrigues that were to come, the second reading gave me a new appreciation for the tension Graves strikes, on the one hand titillating the reader with some of the juiciest (and most disgusting) royal family gossip in all of history, and on the other filtering it through an extremely tiresome, pedantic, and wholly un-gossipy narrator, the bookish Claudius, who prefers to skim prudishly over the excess and drama of his illustrious family and linger instead on long-winded descriptions of obscure battles and historical minutiae.
Objections aside, this is a fun way to learn about Roman history, the side of it your high school Latin teacher may have been reluctant to linger on...
