https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32768520-mirage
“you are not defined by the men in your life, no matter how powerful. You lived before them and you shall live after them. You can’t let them determine your path.” 3 1/2 stars. Now THIS is the feminist YA fantasy of 2018, not Heart of Thorns. It's imperfect, yes, falling into a number of debut author traps, but it's a slow-burning, diverse fantasy with a rich, Moroccan-inspired setting.Somewhat surprisingly, Mirage is a character-driven fantasy. Most YA fantasy I read is driven by mindless acti
Amani's romance with Idris was unexciting to me, but that's okay because it was totally eclipsed by the far more interesting growing relationship between Amani and Maram (I was kinda hoping the romance would be between them, to be honest).In this world - a vaguely sci-fi setting that reads like a fantasy (not unlike Meyer's Lunar Chronicles) - Amani is kidnapped from her poor village on the moon, Cadiz, and taken to the royal palace, the Ziyaana, on the planet of Andala.
Least of which is that lately I’ve been full of the restless, dissatisfied energy that seemed to move into my heart after finishing a book, I’ve been chasing that particular high you only get from certain rare stories—the ones that make you want to press the book against your chest and try to soak up the gorgeous literature via osmosis, the ones that resonate with you on a strange personal level, like a reminder of a half-remembered memory that was once very dear to you but has somehow been forgotten.And chief of which is the ragged awe of reading something so achingly familiar, a story that feels like home, and the most gentle and glowy emotion in your chest at the knowledge that your culture has found its way into the YA fare and has been brought to an audience who likely would not have known about it otherwise.
ARC provided by Flatiron in exchange for an honest review.You all should check out this amazing ownvoices review from Em! 💜  “On a small moon orbiting a large planet, in a small farmhouse in a small village, there was a box, and in this box was a feather.”  Mirage is a magical, wonderful, important, gift to the YA SFF world. From characters I fell in love with, to the messages about the importance of your culture and your family, to the most lyrical and beautiful writing. I loved this story with
Amani is thrown into a world that she has never known, while being constantly reminded of the family, culture, and traditions she had to leave behind.
And Amani is therefore thrown into a world of politics, betrayals, secrets, and even love.This book beautifully illustrates that we are not the actions of our parents and the terrible things that humans are capable of doing.
This book perfectly talks about family, culture, religion, traditions, and the things we are willing to do for them and in the name of them.
im just livin my life and she’s like “here take this amazing multidimensional narrative about colonization and agency and internalized hatred for one’s culture, driven by a fantastic lady lead and her complex relationship with a fantastic lady antivillain, featuring fantastic setting descriptions and a really good romance, and also I write like a fucking Pulitzer Prize winner and this is my debut” and im just.
I feel like we’re often very low on amazing female antiheroines and especially antivillains [basically, a villain who is redeemed / doesn’t always take up that role within the narrative] and it was so great to see that dynamic here.And Amani has so much agency.
I have been waiting for this book and I didn't even know it. Smart, fast-paced, sexy, heartbreaking, with spectacular worldbuilding. The cultural details, from names to clothes to physical descriptions to poetry are so painstakingly and carefully done. It's a sci-fi that feels like a fantasy, which tbh is my favorite genre combo. You will be hearing me yell about this book all year. Add it to your TBRs, try to get your hands on an ARC. It is absolutely fantastic.
Intensity.I don’t want to read a dull story.
I don’t want to not feel anything.
I want to be moved to ugly tears and be made so angry I can’t move my limbs and fumble with my words.This was one intense book and, unsurprisingly, character-driven.
I need characters who are not as they appear.
Not a pretty picture, I admit, but I don’t need pretty.
A bit on the slow side, but definitely a tale that makes me wants to trade one of my all-time favourite books for the sequel.
Anyone wants a copy of Captive Prince in exchange for book two?
Science fiction can be hit and miss for me, so I don’t request ARCs from the genre terribly often, but when I heard the synopsis on this one—and the fact that it has own-voice Moroccan rep, which I’d never seen in a story before—I knew it was one I couldn’t afford to miss out on, and for good reason. I don’t say this lightly in my advance reviews, but honestly, I believe Mirage is going to be one of the best, and most important, releases of 2018. The crown of Dihya had been stripped from me, my
It’s not just a beautiful story, but a haunting one, as Amani’s people have been steadily erased by their Vathek conquerors; more and more of their cultural expressions are becoming outlawed, and nearly all of their political figures have been de-throned to make place for the Vathek king and his family.
Amani and her loved ones are so inspirational and strong, and each of the primary players in this game are complex and evocative in their own ways.
Okay, I got the same book in my Sept Fairyloot Box!
This is happening too much, but I loved the book from this box and all the stuff in it.
I couldn't give up on a book set in space and stuff!
=)•••••••This was in my Sept Owlcrate box.
I hope I love it as much as my friends have given it 5 stars!
I must admit, I love the original copy better then the Owlcrate edition because I love purple =) I will try to add the link below the pic so you can see the goods.
The basic idea is that Amani is kidnapped by imperial droids because she looks exactly like the cruel princess.
Amani grows close to "her" fiance, who initially doesn't realize that she's not the princess.
The writing was absolutely wonderful, the story flowed perfectly, the settings were really vivid & creative, the romance totally worked, and the characters were all well developed & realistic.
Every element of this gorgeous, creative world worked together perfectly to create a truly original story that I think fans of SO many genres will enjoy!!Thank you to the publisher for sending me an ARC.
this book was relatively short and so it wasted no time with a slow build up.
the story dived straight into the world building which, honestly, was a bit overwhelming.
and i felt like this story had a lot going for it - the cultural representation, the sci-fi feel within a fantasy centred story, and the characters.
i thought she had such a strong resolve, not breaking to her new and unfortunate circumstances, but showing defiance in her own way.
the reason this wasnt a 5 star read for me, even though i thought it was an entertaining story, was i just couldnt shake the feeling that i had read it before?
The problem is that this is a debut novel and it felt like one!🌟 I am not a big Sci-fi reader, I read a lot of fantasy and this was like a simpler version of Red rising (Where one character is basically trying to be another).
And there are more examples…🌟 And since I felt I read all of this before I was not thrilled and excited to know what happens next until the last chapters.
I didn’t have problems with the world-building but I wish we had a bit more of it.🌟 So, if you are new to the genre this book is not bad, but if you read a few books of this kind then you may want to skip this book.
This is such a lush sci-fi with an AWESOME premise! Body-doubles and rich backstabby courts and rebellions and the actual most intricately detailed culture and world! (Although lowkey thought it was fantasy?! I think the non-galaxy-starry cover threw me haha.) It's also really important and special to see #ownvoices sci-fi featuring POC characters and culture. I'm sad there were things that didn't work for me regarding plot logic/writing style...but I still think it's a beautiful book and will appeal to many readers.

I made it to 3% and I’ve never been prouder of myself(the writing is gorgeous and nothing is BAD about it, I’m just...not in the mood to read this AT ALL)
One thing that I love when I read is that you can clearly imagine things in a certain way, and with this it felt as if you were there looking down on everything.- Two different relationships, I loved the closeness of both of these, you could sense a bond coming and I'm very very scared for what's to come.- Shatranji and the subtle uses of strategy while playing- POETRYWhat I didn't like?- Lets leave this blank, because I liked itttt"you are not defined by the men in your life, no matter how powerful.
This was solid. I really enjoyed this. Review to come.
Tortured and forced to learn the Princess' every move Amani is forced to become her body double and stand in during events in which the Princess' life will be in danger from assassins.I finished reading Mirage a couple of days ago and had to give this one some thought as to how I wanted to rate this opener.
The first being one that happens quite often and that is just being reminded of other books, movies or television, it took awhile to stop thinking of other things and get into this one on it's own.But the second is not necessarily bad but more my own preference when it comes to fantasy and that is this one is a heavily character driven read.
“You can read?” “My mother taught me.” It’s a good reminder to me because as I live in a country I was not born in, I lose the feeling of importance to teach my son the language and culture I was born with because I want him to succeed where he born and lives.This book is told in the first person point of view following Amani, 18, as she gets ready to attend the majority night celebration to celebrate her and fellow villagers’ coming of age by getting a face tattoo (daan).
currently being hated by everyone ???? show me your worst, Princess Maram 🌚  buddy read  with an angel 💫 ~~~27.8.2018:Mirage will finally be released tomorrow and I'm so here for an antagonistic character that's also called Maram 🌚🌚🌚🌚 Also, need the physical copy like yesterday IT'S GORGEOUS 😍💜
Trigger Warnings: kidnapping, cultural erasure, physical abuse, war themes, murder, forced body altercations, talk of grief and trauma MY REVIEW FOR MIRAGE WAS FIRST POSTED ON MY BLOG, CHECK IT OUT HEREAn important note before I get started, I am not Moroccan nor do I know much about the history and culture of Morocco.
This book is truly on a new level, authors need to step up because Somaiya is someone to look out for.I typically don’t like science fiction.
I couldn’t put this book down and I know it’s because of this new trope.Overall, Mirage is a story everyone needs to read.
★ giveaway for a copy of Mirage + free wallpaper download! ★ "You are not defined by the men in your life, no matter how powerful." Mirage was definitely not what I was expecting--but not in a bad way! I was looking forward to reading a high-stakes survival story with lots of action and rebellion (I was totally imagining a fantasy version of The Hunger Games), but it was more along the lines of The Wrath and the Dawn with its slower pacing and intense focus on the romance.Again, this is not nece
Idris just seemed a little flat for me, and I couldn't bring myself to really care for his character, no matter how kind and charming he was.Mirage doesn't really have a lot going on, so if you're an action-seeker like me, this aspect may disappoint you.
Of course, this also led me to be occasionally confused by the backstories and politics, but that just be my fish brain going haywire again.In short, I'd recommend Mirage for people looking for a strong heroine who they can look up to, a villain with actual depth, seductive world-building, and a very feminist story.
This was another just okay read for me. I wasn’t a fan of some of the scifi elements, maybe that type of stuff just isn’t my thing. I did really like Amani and her poetry fetish. Although the writing was excellent and the romance was nice, I just wasn’t fist pumping over this one.
As far as I know, and I could inform me, this is a Moroccan inspired story, set in a not so distant events that actually happened in Morocco around the 1960s (when I read something I’m not familiarized with, I had to do my own research and that is something I absolutely love in books).
Overall, despite my not so great experience with the characters in the book, I truly recommend you to read this book and I you are completely allowed to hit me if you don’t like it.
Here’s to hoping that the inside of this book matches its cover. ✨🤞🏻💫// buddy read with a Goodreads-deserterBlog | Bloglovin’ | Instagram | Tumblr | Twitter
Ahh, this book. Loved it so much!
i didn't know how much i needed this in my life
I..am not okay.I really am not okay.This book was absolutely stunning and it broke me. I really do not have the words right now to form coherent sentences and express how much it means to me.Review to come when can pick myself off the floor.
Who, because of her biracial identity, was always an outsider, and never "authentic" enough for either.The motif of language manifests itself throughout the story: through Amani's poetry, which she clung too in times of loneliness and despair; through the ceremonial practice of daan, tattoos inked onto skin as symbols of family and inheritance, as physical projections of hopes and dreams.Because language isn't just a tool for communication - it's a bridge that connects and touches the feelings of people.
Something that creates belonging and nurtures love.Being a second-generation child, I know the struggle of being trapped between two cultures.
So it was no wonder that Daud's treatment of cultural identity in Mirage was something that powerfully resonated with me:Amani, who was separated from her roots.
y'all, I really wanted this for the cover at first but now I REALLY WANT THIS FOR THE DESCRIPTION and I'm truly glad I only read the synopsis a day before release, because otherwise, the wait would've been too hard. I'M READY FOR THIS ROMANCE ESPECIALLY
I have a l o t to say about this book.I need some time to wrap my head around it for it to come out right.
