https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78457.The_Unnamable
For to go on means going from here, means finding me, losing me, vanishing and beginning again, a stranger first, then little by little the same as always, in another place, where I shall say I have always been, of which I shall know nothing, being incapable of seeing, moving, thinking, speaking, but of which little by little, in spite of these handicaps, I shall begin to know something, just enough for it to turn out to be the same place as always, the same which seems made for me and does not want me, which I seem to want and do not want, take your choice, which spews me out or swallows me up, I’ll never know, which is perhaps merely the inside of my distant skull where once I wandered, now am fixed, lost for tininess, or straining against the walls, with my head, my hands, my feet, my back, and ever murmuring my old stories, my old story, as if it were the first timeThe book could be said as a well crafted voice of suffering, oppression of humanity through a un-namable character, whose existence itself is only a huge cry in dark solitude.
Σε ένα αιώνιο μουρμούρισμα.»«Να μιλάμε, και να μιλάμε για το τίποτα.»Η απογοήτευση της αφάνειας και η άλλη πλευρά του αρνητισμού εφοδιάζουν τον Μπέκετ με αισιοδοξία και ελπίδα για την δια βίου ασφυξία.Με παράξενη χαρά,προσμονή και ειρωνική ηδονή παρουσιάζει την κλειστοφοβική μανία,τη σιωπή,την ατέρμονη περισυλλογή, τη σκέψη, την παρατήρηση.
Ο Μπέκετ δεν σου επιτρέπει ποτέ να ξεχάσεις την παθιασμένη πραγματικότητα της παραδοξολογίας και της αλήθειας του.
L'Innommable = The Unnamable (The Trilogy #3), Samuel Beckett (1906 - 1989)The Unnamable is a 1953 novel by Samuel Beckett.
Grove Press published the English edition in 1958.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه سپتامبر سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: نام ناپذیر؛ اثر: ساموئل بکت؛ مترجم: سهیل سمی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ثالث، 1392، در 222 ص، شابک 9789643809089؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسه سده 20 م؛ این ترجمه از متن انگلیسی به فارسی برگردان شده استساموئل بارکلی بکت، نویسنده، شاعر و نمایشنامه‌ نویس ایرلندی، و برنده جایزه نوبل ادبیات، ده‌ها سال، در پاریس به صورت مهاجر زیستند، و بسیاری از آثار خویش را به زبان فرانسه بنگاشتند.
Right!My fear was that I knew, or I suspected, that Malone was coming, and since Molloy had gone in the other direction and could come back--or was I just hoping that he would come back when in reality there was no possibility that he would come back?-- anyway, I thought that if Molloy came back they both could clash with each other if they met .
What happened was that Malone came to me and gave me a little tap on the shoulder.And he threw me off balance.Merde!
Otherwise it would be superstitious rather than scientific and certainly not more certain.On my left leg now, and here comes Molloy who did not show up before.
No, the left shoulder, and will throw me off balance.Shit!
Cuando pensaba que ya lo había leído todo con el Finnegans Wake, me encuentro con este inclasificable y desconcertante libro del premio Nobel, Samuel Beckett.Nunca queda claro quién (o qué) es el narrador de “El innombrable”.
Como escribí recién, ni siquiera el pobre narrador intuye una salida a su "existencia": " ¿Cómo hacer, cómo voy a hacer, qué debo hacer, en la situación en que me hallo, cómo proceder?"Ya desde la primera página, la complejidad del texto acorrala al lector al mismo lugar que el narrador, que va mutando máscaras de personajes que componen la trilogía que termina con este libro, porque nombra a Molloy, a Watt, a Murphy, a Mahoon y además decide llamarse "Worm" (gusano).
I just finished, and I think it's brilliant. I can't exactly say why or demonstrate it, it seems. I can't remember much of what I just read either. It's like it only exists while being read... (?)
Samuel Beckett - The UnnamableA bodiless voice which encloses and is enclosed in all, fragmentarily possessing bits of matter now and then, here and there.
A voice that seems as if it's destined to die as soon as your mind stops processing its words.
Totally aware of its mortality and its dependability on its audience.
Filling the space between the page and the eyes, capturing the mind and taking over the stillness of the outside world, lending it its vibrations, making it move around in a circle without a center.
A circle with edges sharp as knives.S. Beckett at his best.
Imagine the creative impulse is a black hole from which rises a bewildered narrative voice, which tries to make sense only of itself, not of the world.
Like a picture made only of colours, colours that burst, that flow, that spring from the canvas in no apparent order and coherence – The Unnamable is made only of words, whirlwinding round and round the reader in an endless monologue, questioning, negating and accepting, forever defining the unity of opposites:I'm there already: I'll start looking for me now, I'm there somewhere.
نامناپذیرِ توضیح ناپذیر. نشستن میان سیل فکرها، توهمها، ترسها، تظاهرها، اعترافها، آرزوها، غمها، خط و نشان کشیدنها، تفلسفها، فراموشیها و تاسفهای یک «من» دروغی. خوانش نام ناپذیر چنین تجربهایست. تمام مشخصههای کارهای قبلی بکت، از مرفی و وات بگیر تا مالوی و مالون می میرد، با حداکثر شدت در نام ناپذیر جمع شده. همین از این کتاب، یا بهتر بگیم، متن طولانی، یک فرانکشتاین ادبی می سازه. رمانی بزرگتر و عجیب تر و زیباتر و ترسناکتر و خوانش ناپذیرتر و فهم ناپذیرتر از هر رمان دیگه. بکت با نوشتن نام ناپذیر، در اطنا
خوانش نام ناپذیر چنین تجربه‌ایست.
تمام مشخصه‌های کارهای قبلی بکت، از مرفی و وات بگیر تا مالوی و مالون می‌ میرد، با حداکثر شدت در نام ناپذیر جمع شده.
بکت با نوشتن نام ناپذیر، در اطناب ها و اطناب ها و تکرارها و تکرارها، به شیطان درون راوی، شیطانی که همه ی عمر امکان بودنِ ناب حتی برای یک لحظه (یا زندگی) رو از راوی گرفته، زبان هدیه کرده.
در آخر، راوی بدون اینکه بفهمه کجای متن شروع زنده بودنش بوده، مثل مسیحای از خاک برخاسته، عاری از آلودگیِ «دیگری هم بودن» یا همان«من نبودن» به یک فرد تبدیل می شه.
What is a review? Is this a review? To view again? But I have only viewed once. Deja vu? To view a second time? Then what is a preview? To view before? To view before viewing? Can one view before ones views? Can one view? Can one be viewed? Am I one? Am I alone? Am I a viewer? Or a reviewer?Thus goes the Unnamable for 200 pages ... a disembodied voice ... a dying voice ... a dead voice?It goes on.
در خصوص محتوای این کتاب شاید توصیفش همانگونه که از نامش برمی آید سخت و دشوار باشد چرا که با فضایی کاملا درهم ریخته و متفاوت روبه رو هستیم و جهانی را تجربه میکنیم که با بیانی خاص و غیر معمول توصیف شده است که هرکس برای کشف محتوای آن باید خودش شخصا کتاب را زندگی و تجربه کند.
به هرحال باید گفت این داستان نه تنها نامی نمیپذیرد بلکه توصیف ناپذیر هم هست و در عین حال برای هر فردی علی الخصوص در جامعه ی مدرن حال حاضر اگرچه غیر قابل بیان اما قابل لمس و درک است.

This dizziness will makes one question, vaguely that is, the nature of reality, identity and social contact.
The unnamed and highly unreliable narrator, who also claims the authorship of previous two works of trilogy and of Murphy too,is thinking about something, or nothing, or something that turned out to be nothing, or something that was always nothing; perhaps everything is nothing, I mean is anything anything?
You might think you have seen worst of Beckett in Molloy and Malone dies - but you will be wrong, whatever he smoked, he was very particularly high while writing this one.
This is the oddest and hardest book I've ever read.
It was definitely a slog to get through in parts; it's a short book, but it took me around two weeks to read, which is a very long time for me.
So it was weird, hard, time-consuming, as well as indecipherable at times but I'm still glad I finished it (so glad it's over).
It's quite absurd this little, long book, but Jesus.
When the last sentence crawls across the page, you feel you've definitely finished something.
Just finished The Unnamable seconds ago. I remember reading Godot in HS, and then later I read Malone Dies and I remember, I'm sure I remember, I must remember being blown away. There are just a handful of books by Kafka, Joyce, Pynchon, Delillo and Beckett that seem to not just BE amazing, but seem built to reach in and rewire the reader's brain. Or at least me, or at least mine.
Bio sam  tako  blizu da odustanem negde na pola, kada me je Beket triput uzastopce nokautirao sa maltene reprizom prva dva dela, ali na kraju mogu reći da je vredelo. Bez dileme najčudnije komponovan roman u trilogiji, koji potpuno odbacuje ideju o paragrafu nakon dvadesetak stranica, ali i ideju o tački nakon stotinu i dvadesetak. Na trenutke je stvarno težak za čitanje, ali onda, po sada već običaju za trilogiju, Beket maestralno zatvori krug i sve privede kraju na potpuno zapanjujuć način. Ne
blizu da odustanem negde na pola, kada me je Beket triput uzastopce nokautirao sa maltene reprizom prva dva dela, ali na kraju mogu reći da je vredelo.
Bez dileme najčudnije komponovan roman u trilogiji, koji potpuno odbacuje ideju o paragrafu nakon dvadesetak stranica, ali i ideju o tački nakon stotinu i dvadesetak.
Na trenutke je stvarno težak za čitanje, ali onda, po sada već običaju za trilogiju, Beket maestralno zatvori krug i sve privede kraju na potpuno zapanjujuć način.
Ali isto tako ovo je i jedan od onih romana kojima mogu da se divim, ali ne i da ih stvarno volim.
Instead, its existence and properties can only be inferred from its gravitational effects on visible matter, radiation and the large scale structure of the universe.The Dark Matter Theory seems to be as applicable to The Unnamable as any other critical frame.
There are only flashes of character and the luminous matter of setting; a torso in a jar, a family in a cage, a Worm, which vanish as soon as they're perceived by a reader.Like dark matter we are much more certain what this narrative is not, than what it is.
while reading this extended narration of narration in-itself ― it suspends me from time and any comfortable footings in reality the same way Webern's music and Trakl's poetry do.
I lack the philosophical wisdom to determine whether or not this "should" be the case, but the more I read Adorno & Nietzsche the more I'm convinced that becoming entails coming to terms with the limits (negativity) of knowledge, unless that's the penchant of all Germans who seem to be in a perpetual struggle with reality.
This book is depressing but only because no mind-altering substance can compare to it; likewise it will probably deteriorate and lose its novelty by the time I'm out of college.


'Ενα βιβλίο-παραλήρημα που κρατά το ενδιαφέρον του αναγνώστη, μόνο αν γίνει κατανοητό και αποδεκτό πως η γοητεία τού έγκειται στην σταθερή λογική της παραδοξολογίας τού. Μία σπουδή στην αυτόματη γραφή, γαρνιρισμένη με άφθονα υπερρεαλιστικά στοιχεία. Ένα νοηματικό περιβάλλον που αν καταφέρει να γίνει οικείο για τον φιλότιμο ή γοητευμένο αναγνώστη, καθιστά ξένη και απαγορευτική την παρεμβολή μιάς απλής σκέψης.
Beckett has written about identity before but in this book, he seemed to me to be taking Descartes' idea "I think therefore I am" to its extremity.
and to hark back to Descartes' reductionism in trying to find a basis for reality, Beckett rejects any use of externals to help identify self:
He calls the version of himself that existed before words (in the womb & possibly after) "Worm" and other older versions "Mahood" and sometimes "Molloy" & "Malone" (!) and seems to be trying to get back to Worm's state of wordlessness.
But questions arise about the nature of silence & if it is possible to still his current version's voice...
Durante los tres libros que forman la trilogía se va produciendo una degradación de los personajes, o del personaje o más bien de la conciencia, porque es eso, al final queda eso, un flujo de pensamiento, constante e inagotable que busca un silencio alcanzable tan solo con la muerte.Personalmente esta degradación me ha resultado la forma más pura de la subjetividad, el ser en su estado más puro y verdadero.Mientras leía el principio del libro encontré una especie de enlace que me hizo comprender el porqué de los poemas que Beckett había dedicado a Descartes tiempo atrás.
This evening there is tripe.I haven't laughed many times in my life reading a book, and found it weird when it happened to me half-way through re-reading this one (didn't happen the first time years ago), and thought if other people have laughed at the same part of the book as me or any other part, for that matter —pondered about my mental health too, right after that.
I had to stop reading after "tripe" and cover up my eyes with my hands while laughing nervously.I'm stressing that anecdote because the book being modernist, proto-postmodernist, modern/original/shocking (contemporary art), maddening, well-written and so on, and so on, have been said enough times before.Detached at first glance, this book feels to me like a purge of Beckett’s heart, both as a human being and a writer.
Impresionante la forma en que Beckett logra llevar adelante por casi doscientas páginas un libro en el que no hay una historia que contar, ni un espacio que describir, ni se le puede asignar ninguno de los tiempos de una narración y en donde ni siquiera se sabe si hay uno o varios personajes. Solo sabemos que hay un narrador, pero ni él mismo sabe quién es. Sin duda es el libro más difícil de una trilogía nada fácil. Indispensable para quien quiera conocer los límites de la escritura (y probarse como lector).
I am going to use this book as a punishment for my students when I'm a teacher.
خیلی متن ثقیل و جملات درهم تنیده ای داشتیک کلمه هم منظور کتاب رو نفهمیدم:|خلاصه که جناب بکت بر ما ببخشایندبخش خنده دار ماجرا: کتاب رو به عنوان کادوی تولد مرداد 95 برای خودم آنلاین سفارش داده بودم
Yes, I will say it, and of me alone."All the earlier characters have something of Beckett in them, so this is the same old story that has already been said ("since, having always been here, I am here still"), yet he expresses the fear of continuing to write, of "going on", because he’s "afraid of what my words will do to me, to my refuge, yet again.""All these Murphys, Molloys and Malones do not fool me.
The voice speaks, unfettered by literature, about how a literary text could possibly come into being and, if it were to come into being, what could it possibly say?This voice is so free it could never conform to the constraints of the form, could not possibly construct a novel.
We, too, are there in the non-place, following the words that cannot tell a story, that tell the story of not being able to tell the story, that speak toward silence, that cannot go on, but do, and must, go on.And Beckett did go on.
The final book in Beckett's trilogy is the most difficult to read.
It felt like a novel that does not have any plot even if you try hard to interpret it so there will be some images that will stay in your mind when you finally close the book.
It was just like that, the unnamed narrator just goes on and one commenting about those characters in those books and all those philosophical statements that are beautifully-worded that can mesmerized you bigtime but there is nothing you can hold on to as a plot or some images that will make you remember this book when you are old and gray.
That for me is this final book in the trilogy of Beckett.
And over and above that the slower wear and tear on the funny bone -- page after page of relentless logic stretched to the absurd breaking point: All of this combined in some unexpectedly healing balm, some sense of love and forgiveness of my own stupidity (a stupidity reflected so clearly on the page).
It healed the delusion of separation implied in the tail-chasing struggle to escape thought with thought.
The book simply exposed the tail-chasing idiocy of thought on a microscopic level.
