https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30075802-the-princess-saves-herself-in-this-one
Between the highly praised Lang Leav and this latest Goodreads Choice finalist, I guess these emo tumblr quotes are the modern version of poetry.
At a time when we just lost the wonderful Leonard Cohen, I can't help feeling sad at the direction poetry is moving in.
It's just a badly-punctuated sentence that sounds kinda cool.
If you came here because, like me, you thought the whole feminist aspect sounded really interesting, I recommend you check out the witty and darkly comical Poisoned Apples: Poems for You, My Pretty instead.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store
I love the fact that a snarky “poem” I knocked up in about two minutes has become my most popular review! icanwritepoetry toobut i preferto write bookreviewsso ihavedone apoetical reviewhere goesthis book isnot poetrynor is this reviewpoeticali have justdecidedto bashmy enter key becausefor some reasonpeoplewilllike itand call itpoetrywhen reallythereisno artor skill involveda chimp coulddo iti have not evenbeenclever with wordsor theirplacementbut i  didrandomly useitalics and putsome words in
I love the fact that a snarky “poem” I knocked up in about two minutes has become my most popular review!
icanwritepoetry toobut i preferto write bookreviewsso ihavedone apoetical reviewhere goesthis book isnot poetrynor is this reviewpoeticali have justdecidedto bashmy enter key becausefor some reasonpeoplewilllike itand call itpoetrywhen reallythereisno artor skill involveda chimp coulddo iti have not evenbeenclever with wordsor theirplacementbut i  didrandomly useitalics and putsome words inboldi am alsoafraid of grammarand capital lettersthough reallyi havejustbashed enterand solditas poetryBlog | Twitter | Facebook | Instagram | Academia
I feel like I just read my middle school AIM away messages or 200 pages of emo Myspace updates.
There's no subtlety or nuance, which is why it makes me think of 13 year old me, just scribbling out PURE FEELINGS to the page because it was the only person who'd listen and all the feelings FELT SO NEW.
Which, I mean, thank you for the nostalgia, if that's what was intended, but as a book of POETRY--sophisticated poetry for the modern feminist--it's a hard pass.
I mean, this book of poetry even touched on things that are very personal to me, like grief, but I got zero feels.
It only took one single page (the dedication) for me, an undying Potterhead, to fall in love with this beautiful collection of poems.
This book teaches self-love and -respect, it teaches how to be strong and unapologetic, and that your life is to be written by your own quill, not by anybody else's.By the way, here is the dedication:for the boy who lived.thank you for inspiring me to bethe girl who survived.you may havea lightning boltto show for itbut my body is alightning storm.Find more of my books on Instagram
This poetry collection is divided into four different parts: the princess, the damsel, the queen, & you.
And there were a lot of parts that really hit home (especially the princess), so much so that I had to put the collection down for a minute and think.The Princess Saves Herself in This One explores life & all of its love, loss, grief, healing, empowerment, & inspirations.
And I loved and felt everything deeply.Here are a few poems that made me both contemplate and feel:
If you're interested in buying The Princess Saves Herself in This One, just click on the image below to go through my link.
I'm sorry (I'm actually not sorry) BUT THIS ISN'T POETRY.WTF is this?ah, life—the thing that happensto us while we're offsomewhere elseblowing ondandelions& wishingourselves intothe pages ofour favoritefairy tales.THIS IS A FUCKING RIP OFF OF A JOHN LENNON QUOTE.
Does anyone SERIOUSLY disagree?!ETA: If we're going to compare minimalist poetry, Lovelace has NOTHING on Rupi Kaur.
Kaur's poems are not rip offs of other people's quotes, and her words are loaded and powerful.Lovelace's words ...
Because her words are as sparkly and frilly as her surname.
One is loaded and powerful, the other is frilly sparkly tumblr shit.
I've seen a lot of reviews debating whether this is poetry or "tumblr spacing" but I think that's ignoring the main point of how powerful some of these poems really are. Amanda completely put herself out there in a totally vulnerable way and the result is a really raw, emotional collection of important insights that will be COMPLETELY relatable to so many young women!
This was such an empowering collection of poems. It was brutal, honest and deeply personal.
scatteringwordsondifferentlines isnotpoetry!
Many of these poems read like normal sentences, which is my biggest gripe about modern poetry books like Milk & Honey.
I crave poetry that has metaphor and depth and wordiness, so reading a 6 word poem that could literally just be a sentence is disappointing to me.
it’s giving advice about feminism and self love and confidence, but this section lacked the most punch for me.
Out of all the section, this read most just like regular sentences with skips in the lines.
2,5 stars.Hmm...
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinteresti didn't realizethat poetry could be achievedby hitting the enter key &then breaking up a sentencewithaspacewho knew that all this timemy english teachers were wrong?- go to hell, robert frost--- So this is going to be a tricky review to write, because opinions have really diverged on this book. Looking through the reviews of THE PRINCESS SAVES HERSELF IN THIS ONE, you immediately see that some people adored this book and others found i
People in the "know" are calling it "Tumblr poetry." I can't vouch for that, though - this fogey-in-process doesn't have a Tumblr.Anyway, Andrews McMeel is going to publish this book, and I'm sure the fact that the author won the Goodreads Choice Award for Best Poetry has something to do with this book deal.
If writing this book helped her achieve cathartic release, as she claims at the end, then that is a good thing.
If you ever subscribed to "emo" culture, had an angsty blog, or the whole "chicken soup for the ____" phenomenon, read THE PRINCESS SAVES HERSELF IN THIS ONE.
I want to review this honestly and go into the details about why I do not like this book of poetry.
Therefore, under duress: This book of poetry changed me.
The way the author puts this piece of 'amazing' literature together is done 'incredibly' well.
I 'love' how the poems flow and are in no way staggered and stop/start.
A really 'A1' piece of literature which will, I am sure, be 'loved' by all.Addition 6/12/2016: So this won the Goodreads award for poetry.
If this is used as the standard of poetry nowadays, you can class this whole review as an epic.
Still loved it the second time around.I have no words. This was unbelievable. I'll write a proper review once my heart settles down.
I wish I could give this 5 stars.
But hitting Enter after each word (or Space after each letter) does not make for poetry.
It simply doesn't.Other than that, I love The Princess Saves Herself in this One!
Amanda, I understand your feelings completely.
I know all about the sugar and the salt.
My fingers were never slender enough.
I'll never please them, and no matter what anybody says, the hurt always follows you.Thank you for the courage to speak up your mind.
*I thank Amanda Lovelace, Andrews McMeel Publishing, and Netgalley for this copy in exchange for an honest review.
This Got  Annoying
that is what abuse is:knowing you are going to get saltbut still hoping for sugarfor nineteen years. And so began my journey of love with this collection.You'll notice I didn't use the beginning quote. Well, I didn't love this from the very beginning. Towards the beginning, I found the formatting slightly annoying. Some poems were fantastic and new and interesting, but some almost made me snort from their cheesiness. At times I feel Amanda Lovelace got so caught up in sounding profound she forg
And so began my journey of love with this collection.You'll notice I didn't use the beginning quote.
Well, I didn't love this from the very beginning.
Towards the beginning, I found the formatting slightly annoying.
At times I feel Amanda Lovelace got so caught up in sounding profound she forgot the true emotional core of her poems.
The sheer emotional weight of section II's poems is amazing.
Lovelace's poem on 183 especially made me cry, with both joy and sadness and something in between.
VERDICT: Yes, it's not the best poetry of all time.
But the emotional weight is beyond amazing.
I’m not usually into poetry.
Yes, I’ve always found it quite intriguing and fantastical how a few short rightly placed words could hold such powerful and deep message.
How a few short rightly placed words can create a world and a galaxy and a universe of unlimited possibilities.
How a few short rightly placed words can evoke emotions of sadness, love, anger, or happiness.
But I decided to give this book of poetry and try and this was so much more than I anticipated.
Sadness, power, anger, tears, love, joy, growth, hate,  this book of poems is so wonderfully constructed.
2. I'm sick of young poets thinking the ability to put you emotions down on paper makes you a good writer, unless it's done poetically (which in this collection it rarely is) you are not writing poetry, you are writing a diary.
3. Following on from the idea of writing a diary I want to stress to you, THAT IS WHAT YOU ARE GETTING, sorry for caps I'm still angry at the 30 minutes of my life I spent reading this 'poetry' in hope I might get a few gems out of it, I didn't.

XD It wasn't a very long poetry book to begin with but I didn't expect to devour The Princess Saves Herself in this One in less than 30 mins!
Still, I enjoyed some of the poems a lot and related to a few of them.I know that some people complained about the style and the amount of spaces being used but I actually thought it was cute and creative.
I know it's not the first poetry book to do so but it's the first that I've seen personally and I thought it was a nice little touch.
"Once upon a time, the princess rose from the ashes her dragon lovers made of her & crowned herself the mother-fucking queen of herself."I picked up this book immediately on my Kindle app after reading the lovely Mayflower's review.I really enjoyed this!I adored the use of imagery, especially the idea of slaying the "dragons" in your life that do not serve your self-interest.
I also very much appreciated the clarification on what qualifies as abuse.
This was an empowering, tear jerking narrative about how a host of small hurts can eventually crush you, and just how important it is to keep getting back up.
This is a deeply personal set of poetry that all tells a story.
I found these 2 poems meaningful to me:1 You were sent down from the stars exactly the way you were supposed to be- the way you would love, the way you would lust, & the way you would find your wings-- & no one should have been given the power to take that away from you.2 The only thing required to be a woman is to identify as one.She has four section and each poem tells a piece of a story for that theme.
Amanda has been so brutally honest in her poetry.
I also felt like I had read so many of them before.
It felt sort of like deja vu, not only with an individual theme but also with how they were phrased and how they were worded.
I also felt like Lovelace was trying to do something visually with these poems but she missed the mark for me.
There was only one poem were I liked the formatting and the visual effect in relation to she poem and that was "-did it really happen if I can't remember it?" in which the poem is about locking memories away and it's made to look like a keyhole.
I'm not criticizing, belittling or making fun of what the author has gone through by any means, it's just pure personal opinion of a book whose title I found to be intriguing. I only read this book because it won the Goodreads award for Poetry, and honestly I wanted to know why, and I somehow couldn't find the reason, maybe it's me.I'm gonna make this review as simple as the poems.So, why two stars?1. The poems were very personal that I actually felt uncomfortable, and this is not how you shoul
I only read this book because it won the Goodreads award for Poetry, and honestly I wanted to know why, and I somehow couldn't find the reason, maybe it's me.I'm gonna make this review as simple as the poems.So, why two stars?1.
I promised myself that I won't read any more free verse modern poetry but, I couldn't resist when it has a title like that.
It's spilled all over the pages.This is a written note for myself to not read any more free verse modern poetry again because it's not my thing and authors invest time in writing these poems for people who actually do like it, so I don't have to waste mine reading something that isn't for me.
"The princess jumped from the tower & she learned that she could fly all along. - she never needed those wingsWhat a beautiful book holding beautiful and powerful words. Some I could relate to and hit close to home. Truly beautiful.
Whenever I've have ratings less than 3 in GR.I dont express much in my review !It was just like that.
To be perfectly honest, I only checked out this poetry collection because it won the Goodreads Choice awards (although the title it pretty great as well!).
Again, with 15 I would have loved those!I appreciate the way she uses the whole page for her poems, how she styles them, und how she makes the design work for her.
These poems were pretty damn brilliant and are the reason why I will definitely check out her next collection whenever she publishes one.
*ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review, thanks again*-  1.5 stars -For me this felt more like creative writing than poetry. The author wrote like t h i s and this andthenlikethis,whichfeltpointlessafterawhile.But, jokes and personal preferences aside, what she said in this collection didn't feel so original.I want to be clear from the start: I'm not criticizing what the author went through or what she felt during those times in her life. What she felt was valid and real; I'm
The author wrote like t h i s and this andthenlikethis,whichfeltpointlessafterawhile.But, jokes and personal preferences aside, what she said in this collection didn't feel so original.I want to be clear from the start: I'm not criticizing what the author went through or what she felt during those times in her life.
What she felt was valid and real; I'm criticizing the result.These poems were nothing new, nothing that made me think.
It was clear she felt so many things but the result was distant and...
And I'm not here to read common things.
(actually 1,5 stars)I can’t describe how annoyed I feel when I pay for a book with 150 pages and then I find out that its total length should be around 30 pages.
Does this technique make the meaning of a sentence look more profound and sophisticated than it actually is?
When I browsed the book on Goodreads I was amazed by the ratings and the 5-star reviews.
I will be more careful next time so I won’t have to write negative reviews, which actually makes me feel really bad.
