https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2968.The_Complete_Short_Stories_of_Mark_Twain
This book is featured on this week's 'Shabby Sunday' @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...Growing up in my grandparents home, we had books from wall to wall.
My grandfather was a teacher and loved the written word.
We had plenty of books to keep us busy.
One of the only books that I have left in my collection that belonged to my grandfather is The Complete Short Stories of Mark Twain.
To me, this is a must-have for any Mark Twain fan.
A few of my favorites are- A Dying Man's Confession, A Day at Niagara, A Ghost Story, A Dog's Tale, and Luck.
Most of the last half is nearly unreadable, with novella-length stories of highly mannered dialogue and virtuous characters (there are some good pieces in there, of course, like The Million-Pound Bank Note, about a man who has to play out a bet when strangers give him a bill so large that he can never use it, and a brief fable at the end that echoes Aesop in using a silly animal story to get into something profound about seeing what we want to see in art criticism), and some of the early humor pieces are absolutely maddening (a tale of a medieval sex scandal that literally ends with Mark Twain writing that he doesn't know how to get his characters out of their mess so he's just going to stop writing, and a very funny travel piece about how Niagara Falls is a miserable place, which ends with a thuddingly preposterous hyperbole about "and then I got killed, then I got killed some more, then I got killed some more" - I suspect this may have been a popular style of humor at the time, but it's annoying today).
The Twain book doesn't really fall into that category, of course; I've read a fair amount of Twain.
But the thing about this edition was that it was over 600 pages long with small type; it was very compact.Anyway, I grabbed the Twain collection (which also includes short stand-alone fiction taken from within longer novels and non-fiction books) because it was long, not too big (the paper is extremely thin and delicate), and would take a long time to read.
I laughed out loud - loudly - more than once, and one story got me so choked up that I spent half an hour fighting back tears.
Loved it! I only need read 3 more books and I'd have read his complete works! Woot!Now I leave you with a harmless lyric:--------------------------------------Conductor, when you receive a fare,Punch in the presence of the passenjare!A blue trip slip for an eight-cent fare,A buff trip slip for a six-cent fare,A pink trip slip for a three-cent fare,Punch in the presence of the passenjare!CHORUSPunch, brothers! punch with care!Punch in the presence of the passenjare!
My high school AP english teacher got me addicted to finding quotations and I started a binder for them after years of collecting and noticed quite a few were from Twain.
In truth, I'm not finished with this book, I have the last few stories at the back that are longer than those in the beginning, but I've put it on the shelve, still bookmarked where I left off so I can read it a later time, kinda like starting a tub of ice cream and saving the rest for later.
All of Mark Twain's stories read all at once was a bit too much.
He is so sarcastic that after reading one story after another you begin to feel this negative vibe for the world.
Some of his short stories standing on their own were excellent.
Most of the ones I enjoyed, were written early on in Mark Twain's career.
My least favorites came at the end when he seemed to become so negative that the stories really weren't funny anymore.
Anyways, I'd recommend this collection if you take a few stories at a time, but it's definitely not something to be read straight through.
I know of Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn, but by name only.
Some stories were written in late 19th century, others in early 20th century, and they seem to be collected in the order in which they were written.
If you haven't read Mark Twain yet (or much, aside from The Adventures of Tom Sawyer or even The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn), you should give this book a look.
Because its contents are so varied, you are sure to find something to your liking in this collection.
There is the famous “Jumping Frog of Calaveras County” set in the familiar Northern Californian “Angel’s Camp.” “Journalism in Tennessee” is about a journalist taking on the agriculture section of a local newspaper, even though he knows nothing about farming, and proceeds to spew complete lies and fiction, incurring the ire of the local farmers.Collectingall of Mark Twain’s sixty short stories, this collection shows the great author’s full breath from writing entertaining fiction, to travel pieces, to contemplative nonfiction; the only problem is that at times the line between fiction and reality becomes somewhat blurred.
I started reading this collection as my bedtime reading just after the start of the new year; it took me this long to read the book because Mark Twain wrote a lot of short fiction.
I very much enjoyed my reading, and only wish that Twain had not become somewhat bitter as he grew older.The Introduction to the volume, by Charles Neider, is rather dated (written in 1957), but a good preface to Twain’s writing.
Or Hell?”.I loved reading all of these stories, even the dark ones, and can say without reservation that this collection of Twain short stories was dandy bedtime reading.
كنت قد ادخرت مبلغا من المال بنية التبرع لحملات هداية الظالين، ولكن زوجتي اقترحت شراء إنذار ضد السرقة، فوافقت على ذلك.
أشعلت شمعة ونزلت فلمحت شخصا خارجا من إحدى الغرف، بفمه غليون ويحمل إناء من القصدير ظنا منه أنه من الفضة."لو سمحت ياسيد، نحن لانسمح بالتدخين في هذا المنزل"توقف لحظة ورمقني باستنكار وإجاب:- "كيف لي أن أعلم بهذا القانون وأنا لم أزر هذا البيت من قبل؟ لقد دخلت بيوتا أرقى من بيتكم بكثير ولم أجدهم يطبقون هذا النظام بتاتا.
أي سمكة هذه التي لا تحسن السباحة؟ سارعت حواء بالتقاطه من الماء حتى قبل أن أتمكن من إثبات أو نفي فرضيتي.
I came to the realization that I was pretty much in the dark when it came to Twain's short stories.
Transcontinental phone calls were not possible until nearly 40 years later, well after Twain's death.His stories use a great variety of time, place, and points of view.
We see Twain, as he is in his final years, becoming more bitter and pessimistic about the future of mankind.
It touches on metaphysics, God, and a bit of science fiction.I have read the short stories of Guy de Maupassant, Faulkner, Fitzgerald, Chekhov, and Hemingway.
"You can find in a text whatever you bring, if you will stand between it and the mirror of your imagination."
This was a lot of fun to read, although many of the stories I had already read in "The Mysterious Stranger and Other Tales" and "The Bible According to Mark Twain."My only complaint about this is that the stories are presented as chronologically as possible - which is all well and good, but as Twain got older and his writing progressed, he also got more and more bitter.
So, as a read, it starts off hilarious and fun and light-hearted and then, about halfway through, the stories start getting more and more depressing.Possibly the best (or the worst, depending on how you look at it) are "A Dog's Tale" and "A Horses Tale" which start off so magnificently, but end in such a crushing depression.
Mark Twain is a very inconsistent author to me.
At times, he is brilliant, as I love 3 of his novels.
Other times, his work just doesn't resonate with me.
Case in point: I've now read the short story "The Celebrated (Notorious) Jumping Frog of Calaveras Country" three times and still couldn't fully recap the story.The ones in this collection I really enjoyed were: The Stolen White Elephant, A Ghost Story, The Diary of Adam and Eve (absolutely brilliant!), The £$1,000,000 Bank-Note, The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg, Two Little Tales, and A Horse's Tale.None of the rest were bad, but were just forgettable.
One of the shames of literature in our era is that Mark Twain is primarily taught as and known for his novels, especially Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer.
Now, I'll tell you straight, I found Tom Sawyer boring and Huck Finn almost unreadable.
He was an amazing short story writer.
If you haven't read Twain's short stories you are missing out on his true brilliance, insight, wit, and ability.
"Some Learned Fables, For Good Old Boys And Girls" and "Captain Stormfield's visit to Heaven" are a couple of my favorites, though there are a good many others I can read again and again.
I have loved Mark Twains stories for a long as I can remember.
I absolutely love is collection.
There's only one story that I couldn't really get into and that's Mysterious Stranger.
I highly recommend buying two copies one for yourself to read over and over and another one to loan out.
I've convinced many people who told me they didn't like Twain because of the stories they had to read in school to give him another try by having them read The Diary of Adam and Eve, the Story of the Good Little Boy, The Story of the Bad Little Boy, or other such writings to give Twain another try & they have all thanked me for it.
How much Mark Twain is too much? Eight hundred and fourteen pages is not too much. I have decided that of Satan-meddling-with-the-world-stories, I prefer "The Mysterious Stranger" to _The Master and Margarita_.
What a range--from fun adventure to humorous, gently satirical stories, to bitingly bitter pieces from a "pen warmed up in hell" ! These stories really show Twain in all of his moods, and are really fun reading.
I love Mark Twains' wit. The way he spins sarcasm and humor makes him one of my favorite writers of all time. I would love to have met this great man!
Seriously, how can you give this anything less than five stars?
classic tale but writing has disoriented anyway
I have a set of these stories passed down from my great grandfather--the COMPLETE in this title is one of Twain's clever little jokes.
I have read this book several times. It is undoubtedly the funniest book I have ever read (parts of it)I would lay in bed crying it was so funny. The same thing when I read it the second time.
(hide spoiler)]22 Some Learned Fables for Good Old Boys and Girls - Learned animals send exploration party that determines from ruins that man is extinct.23 The Canvasser's Tale - Door-to-door salesman tells sob story about bankrupt uncle's echo collection.
Reading this book, one follows the development of Twain as a writer.
Well developed plots, often over very few pages, and interesting experiments with the form of storytelling: sometimes like a newspaper article, using a framing story, diaries, court report or made up entirely out of direct speech.
Then, at the end of the book, Twain shoots out of control and straight into some kind of biblical afterlife with some very pessimistic, exalted, almost visionary and prophetic stories.
But still, if you read through the sarcasm and the absurdities and the overt moralism, these are great stories in their own right.
Didn't quite read the whole thing, but some of my personal favorites include: - The Great Beef Contract- The Taming of the Bicycle- The Man Who Corrupted Hadlyburg- What Is Man- Letters from Earth- The Leaping Frog of Calaveras CountyI find his short works so enjoyable - Twain truly is to the US what Dickens was to England, or the Brothers Grimm were to Germany, or Dostoyevski was to Russia. He captures the very brightest and the very darkest elements of the American spirit.
There are so many gems in here that I'm almost reluctant to single out more because I wouldn't want to steer anybody toward more of my favorites in case they might miss one that would turn out to be theirs.For my money, there isn't a funnier short story than "The McWilliamses and the Burglar Alarm." The way that Twain turns a phrase will crack me up the next time I read it, and the time after that.
"Who needs this much Mark Twain?", some might ask. To them, I say only one word, "ME". This two-volume set from The Library of America is a massive boon to people like me who enjoy Twain's writing style and is amazingly handsome in its bind-up.
This had been purchased so that I can read "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County" in preparation of being in Angels Camp, CA in early August 2015, where Twain got the inspiration for this story.
I knew that Twain was somewhat cynical in his otherwise light-hearted observations of life, but he's more so than I remembered. Quite a bit is wry and humorous, too. He does a good job of capturing the colloquial nature of life and language among America's non-cultured.
