https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33745.Charlie_All_Night
⭐⭐⭐⭐4 STARS⭐⭐⭐⭐This was recommended to my by my good friend, Lana... She must have read all 90s CR out there... lolAnyway, this book was really what I was looking for, short, funny, and real dialogues along the way!
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️4 STARS⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️This was recommended to my by my good friend, Lana... She must have read all 90s CR out there... lolAnyway, this book was really what I was looking for, short, funny, and real dialogues along the way!
That moment when you realize what the title of the book means...Radio producer Allie has been dumped by her boyfriend, and demoted to the 10 pm - 2 am spot on the radio. When temporary DJ Charlie comes in, he awakens in her this go-getter attitude of making him famous, (and boosting her career in the process). What she wasn't expecting, was to fall in love... Too bad Charlie is only around for a short four weeks.Charlie isn't interested in being famous. As a matter of fact he isn't even a real
That moment when you realize what the title of the book means...Radio producer Allie has been dumped by her boyfriend, and demoted to the 10 pm - 2 am spot on the radio.
When temporary DJ Charlie comes in, he awakens in her this go-getter attitude of making him famous, (and boosting her career in the process).
Too bad Charlie is only around for a short four weeks.Charlie isn't interested in being famous.
I liked Charlie up until I realized he was hell bent on arresting a peaceful old hippy who was helping cancer patients...
I mean really Jennifer Crusie??
:(I love Jennifer Crusie's books but she lost me with this one.
Crusie is one of my absolute favorites, but if this book hadn't been on my Kindle, I know I never would have finished it.
It lacked Crusie's usual well-drawn characters, full of quirks and insecurities.
It definitely lacked the fun and funny banter she is known for.
Plus, they seemed to spend most of the story apart due to a silly "celibate bet." Their motivations throughout the book were largely a mystery to me.
I've read a few other early books by this author and found them by and large to be fun and charming.
It's utterly ridiculous and charming, in just about the best way.I have nothing of substance to add; I just enjoy the heck out of this one.---Giggle.Seriously, that's pretty much it.
(view spoiler)[The Newsroom totally did the surprise proposal better though.
Actually, I adore how pretty much everyone tried to play matchmmaker.
I love how Allie and Charlie did better on latenight because they both liked the weirdness.
I love how Allie pretty much produced everyone at the station and they all loved her.It's not perfect, but I was solidly entertained.So, really, just giggle.
(3.5 stars) Charlie All Night is not my favorite Jennifer Crusie book and like a few of her other earlier ones feels more like a novella than a full-length novel.
All in all, the book is definitely worth checking out from the library (which is what I did).In Charlie All Night, like in Anyone But You, Crusie features a heroine who is both older than usually found in the genre (Allie is 36) and than the hero (though only by two years here - not the ten that separates the hero and heroine of Anyone But You).My favorite Crusie books so far are: Bet Me (5 stars - amazing!!), Manhunting (4 stars), and Getting Rid Of Bradley (4 stars).
So I liked this a lot, but I also feel like it was just slightly off from the Crusie ideal. Like all the pieces were there, there was that great story flow, the fun, and great characters, but I feel like it didn't get all the way there.More specifically, (view spoiler)[it felt like Joe kind of disappeared in the second half. And I felt like we didn't see enough of Allie and Charlie hanging out during their bet. I saw the connection, sure, but I still don't think they quite proved they were more than just sex. (hide spoiler)]
She's such a beloved author in romance that I always hoped I'd find one that fit and it looks like Charlie All Night was the ticket.
Welcome to Temptation awaits me at my local library.If I have one quibble (a completely unfair one) it's that there was a secondary character in this book that I loved so much I wanted him to have his own book.
Now, that wasn't done in the mid-90s for gay characters in an m/f series, but I loved Joe so very desperately that I want to imagine him happily married to a man who loves flamin' hot Cheetos.
I've enjoyed a few of the more recent Crusie books and have been checking out her backlist now that it is in eBook form.
What I enjoy about her more recent books is the realistic, humorous voice of her characters, primary and secondary.
That humor is still in evidence here, but she's also trying to mix in suspense, and I think it results in just too much going on.
As a result, character development suffers.Allie is interesting - we meet her as she wakes up to her stupid decisions of the past, and she makes a few rash, uncharacteristic decisions that could go either way.
My first foray into romance wasn't a huge hit but I could sense this wouldn't be quite my thing. I actually read a few books by Crusie in the early 2000's, and they aligned with this one - light plot, lots of breathless throbbing desire, and a somewhat unique setting of a late night radio show. I would say Crusie saves her best writing for the sex scenes and she isn't nearly as descriptive in her writing about the radio station or the Chinese food, although those also make multiple appearances.
Ahhhh this was so good.
Crusie at her best - it might actually be my favorite Crusie.
I highlighted a bunch of lines - that first conversation in the bar, and then with Joe, and then with Mark, it's all so, so wonderful.
I also liked the overall radio plot, even though obviously Allie and Charlie were the most compelling part.
It's hilarious and also very sexy, way more than other Crusies.
Really, a ton of fun.And now I'm sad because this was the last book in my "Jennifer Crusie Book Bundle" and I feel like I don't have enough Crusies left to read.
Because the "subplots" were even worst: 1) he, Charlie, is investigating some mystery, but I didn't understand if he was a detective or he was just doing it to make his father happy (which makes no sense because he hates him), and it's the most stupid mystery in the world (I know it's meant to be a light novel, but some real drugs or a murder or something would have spiced things up)...
But the climax, that is the sex-scene and also de love-confession, always are more exciting when you've been waiting for them the whole book, and when, fighting against all odds, they take place in the end.
Crusie has a talent for sarcastic, loveable heroes it’s impossible not to fall in love with!Charlie Tenniel rolls into small town, USA, to help his dad’s best friend who has received a distressing letter against his radio station.
Charlie takes on the late-night DJ spot in order to check out the situation.
Charlie is a born entertainer, and his lovemaking skills are even better!It doesn’t take long before she’s falling for him and he seems to feel the same way, but then trouble comes to the WBBB.Can Charlie solve the mystery and keep the girl?
You’ll have to read the book to find out!I give Charlie All Night 5+ lovely kisses- This one is a keeper 🙂
It's a lethal mix: cute animals, humour & a love story.
But thank god there are now writers like Crusie that can write intelligent & funny chick lit.
The dialogue is written well & the characters have normal every day sounding names.
It's a pet peeve of mine that characters in books often have ridiculous outlandish names.
I also like Crusie's sense of humour.
And being an animal lover myself I love reading about animals as a character too.
Another thing I liked was that the heroine of the story isn't some supermodel, high fashion skinny lady.
Rather she sounds more like a real woman with curves.
It got better when the radio show started, but it still didn't do it for me. I thought it wasn't plausible, which is hilarious, considering it's contemporary romance.I've had better.
So much fun. Love the late-night call-in radio show. The friendships and food are, as always, key parts. There’s only one thing that could have been better— (view spoiler)[the bet for no sex means Allie and Charlie talk less without sex than they do with the sex, and that’s by far the best part, the talk with the sex (hide spoiler)]. A top-shelf Crusie for me, for sure.
This might have been my favorite of this book bundle. Reread.
Excellent story.
in a while an avid reader stumples on a story that pulls them into the love of the couple.
That was me, (The Old Vicarious Reader), this time.
There was something about this couple that called to me.
“You know, it’s a shame you’re gay.
You’re probably the perfect guy for her.” Joe grinned at him.
“It’s a shame you’re not.
You could be the perfect guy for me.”Best line in the book.
“She would pick a month with thirty-one days."An author can't always hit the target for their reader.
But, this story sure hit the target for me.
Excellent read.
Wow. That was a nice upshift in quality. Still a 90s book (not even that late at 1996) but much closer to her 2000s in quality. I really liked both protagonists, not least because they fit so very well together (but maybe that's my crush on Charlie speaking). Crusie's strengths are all manifest here, if not in absolute top form, then at least firmly in their zone.A note about Steamy: In the mid range with three explicit scenes of moderate length (and that third is a doozy). Not a lot of fooling around, though.
I like just about anything by Crusie, but this wasn't my favorite.
These earlier plots seemed to tip heavily around mis-communication between hero/heroine and I just NEVER buy it.
She writes these strong, feisty protagonists who refuse to ask simple questions that any woman would ask on a first date, like, WHAT DO YOU WANT TO DO WHEN YOU GROW UP?
Basically, the protagonist of this novel knows NOTHING about the hero and falls in love with him anyway.
It's fun and cute and ridiculously difficult to put down, but flimsy when it comes to reality.
Her later books are MUCH better.
This was a really good read. Interesting, fun, sweet and a good HEA. Good for an anytime read an something on the lighter side. Great (an varied) characters, a rollercoaster ride to read, bantering, friends, conspirators and pretty much intriguing. I enjoyed reading this and laughed a few times throughout. Totally Enjoy
She loves her job and thrives on it, so when the radio station's current Drivetime star, Mark King, who up until two months ago was her lover, tells her that she's been moved to a different time slot, and from now on, he'll be using Lisa, her former intern as his producer, Allie is not happy.
But Charlie was never meant to stay in Tuttle for too long, what will Allie do when and if he actually leaves?This is yet another romance I got in an e-book sale absolutely ages ago and never got round to reading.
Jennifer Crusie does it again with "Charlie All Night" a story of a radio producer and her new DJ and their uniquely budding relationship.Crusie is a fast talker, giving her characters fire and unique personalities. The dialogue is snappy and the novel is full of perfect little laughs. She takes you to the edge of what could possibly be believable scenarios and then adds true heart.If I didn't start so late in the evening this book would have been finished in one sitting. Easy and fun as always.Happy Reading!
So damn funny and adorable and everything that you could expect from reading a Jennifer Crusie book! I have almost laughed out loud in public places while reading this book while out and i ever did laughed out loud, i may not have regretted it! The good vibes that this book was able to emit really came in groups. Loved this book so much.
This was a cute, one-sitting read.
I did laugh out loud for a few parts, but I vaguely remember another book by Cruise that I read ages ago being funnier than this one.
SPOILERS FOLLOWIt got a bit preachy with the whole "legalize medicinal marijuana now" theme and I don't really like spicy scenes, but they were pretty easy to skip and it did make reading the book faster.
Cute and sometimes funny contemporary romance with spicy scenes.
If you enjoy contemporary romance with humor and a few scenes to get the blood racing, you will probably like this book.
I liked the fact that the main characters are both initially described as just kind of average - in fact at one point the hero is described as having "the kind of face that the big, good-natured kids in the back of high-school English classes always have, slightly dopey and comfortable." But as the story continues both the hero and heroine are seen recognizing previously unnoticed qualities that make the other more and more attractive to them.The one thing that did bother me a bit was the timing - the book takes place over a period of about 5-6 weeks, but the first week takes up about 3/4 of the book.
I find myself wanting to quote favorite bits of dialogue, such as the conversation between the Allie (the heroine), Charlie (the man she has just met and with whom she is considering a fling), Joe (her gay roommate) and Mark (her ex-boyfriend): Mark looked from Charlie to Allie to Joe, evidently reading Allie's mind."So who is he sleeping with?""Me." Allie held her hand like a polite child, her plan now in place.
"Joe gets him tomorrow.""Very funny," Mark said."Not so funny for me," Joe said.
"I have to wait twenty-four hours.""I don't think that's funny", Mark said."Neither does Joe," Charlie said, and Allie laughed, delighted he was part of them.-------------------------------------------------------------------------I mostly avoid category romances, but was pleasantly surprised at home much I enjoyed this one.
Such a short and fun read.
I really enjoyed reading this book.
Reading Charlie All Night was like using heroine.
Her characters are fun to read and her stories are just light and perfect for off days.Sometimes, we readers, need a break from dark and deep novels that leave us with a bleeding Medulla right after reading them.
And books such as  Charlie All Night  is a breath of fresh air.So what if the main character, Allie, is a bit dimwitted?
She's still fun, and that's what really matters.
And Charlie...
The fact that I enjoyed this novel is a proof that I am not that hard to please.
Though I'm normally a paranormal romance reader Crusie came highly recommended for her characters' witty banter.
There was some in Getting Rid of Bradley, but none here.Not only was the conversation dull, but sometimes it made no sense.
Charlie says he's going to miss someone's jokes when I can't remember a single punchline being delivered.
Allie reminds Charlie not to be controversial, then gets into a long discussion about sex on air with few reservations.
It didn't add up.Nor did the hijinx at the radio station.
I was taken out of the story multiple times when I asked myself, would that really happen?
and it has many good people in it.the story is simple, predictable even, yet very interesting.the charachters are really well written, the plot is nicely weaven.In addition to Charlie and Allie; I loved every oneelse as much.Grady, and his mother, Harry, Karen and even Bill.I felt sorry for Lisa and really wanted to hit Mark.and I especially loved that the pupie Sam was there ..
and that he servived against all odds, just like the love story did.I enjoyed every minuit of reading this book; laughed and cried and felt the love.Guess I'm hocked with Jennifer Cruise books for a while to come :)

