https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11632539-the-builders
If you're interested in knowing about Masons thoughts and philosophy (and not the bizarre controversial ceremonies) check this short book (especially for their history) or the 800-pages-long Morals and Dogma by Albert Pike (especially for their dogma)."Here, then, are the real foundations of Masonry, both material and moral: in the deep need and aspiration of man, and his creative impulse; in his instinctive Faith, his quest of the Ideal, and his love of the Light.
The doctrines of Masonry are the most beautiful that it is possible to imagine.
They breathe the simplicity of the earliest ages animated by the love of a martyred God. that word which the Puritans translated Charity, but which is really Love, is the keystone which supports the entire edifice of this mystic science.
That is all our doctrine, all our science, all our law.
We have no narrow - minded prejudices; we do not debar from our society this sect or that sect; it is sufficient for us that a man worships God, no matter under what name or on what manner.
Not a bad introduction to Freemasonry as a whole, but one feels a need to bring it into the 21st century.
I listened to the Audible version of this book.
"A Really Great Book On Masonry and Rules of Nature" I couldn't even believe it when I saw this book was written in 1914.
It was such a wonderful listen and it holds strong today.
It's the best audiobook or book I've ever listened to or read about masonry.
I think this is a must listen to.
Many people don't understand the philosophy of masonry and this audiobook is the perfect opportunity to clarify many misconceptions.Craig C.
I enjoyed listening to him as he had a calm, relaxing voice which resonated very well with the book.
A beautiful book full of praises and verses to Masonry.
In an attempt to describe what are the ideology, philosophy and wisdom of the Masonry, the author explains the development, mission and spirit of the organization along the way, giving quite a full picture of what would otherwise commonly known as being secretive and subversive.
It clarifies a lot of the misconceptions by going to the roots and sources of the organization.
Whether you are a Masonry or not, or whether you want to become one, you will surely find a lot of enlightenment simply by reading the book.
The Builders is a must read for all masons! Joseph Fort Newton lays the foundations of Freemasonry in his writings of the history, meaning, and philosophy of the craft. The book goes beyond our humble beginnings in 1717 and takes the reader on a journey back in time to where Freemasonry began. The Builders is a clear text of the morals of Masonry and the structure of what fuels all men to be better- love for mankind, love for thy neighbor and discovering our individual divinity.
unbelievable, thorough in its examination of the craft but adding insight to its historical narrative. unlike other works of its type it is not a recitation of facts and dates, this book builds upon the narrative to expound a deep insight underlying the philosophies behind the craft. highly recommend.
A great book detailing the history of masonic views in the world. Rather than try to determine just when Freemasonry started historically, Mr Newton Chronicals philosophic ideal through the ages which are akin to the ideals of modern Freemasonry. I quite enjoyed the historical perspective.
Outdated.Interesting but outdated read. The book, although it contains some useful information, is not appealing for new members of the Order.
Another very interesting book
Commissioned by the grand lodge of iowa, the builders was a masonic "graduation" gift for decades....this book praises black magic and satanic rituals as a part of freemasonry(see Waite and Levi)
