https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826520.Second_Stage_Lensmen
(I don't think it should be, but I may be a minority.)Moving on.I cringed a lot while reading this.
Add super super super powerful telepathic abilities and a weakness for the ladies, and we've got a square-jawed hero that later becomes the Green Lantern.No. Wait.
But once we went into the whole infiltration of the baddies' empire, using telepathy to cloud the minds of all the aliens to make them think he was one of them, I was pretty much hooked and rocking along.
Then it would be he who issued the orders - orders that would destroy his own civilization..."If you can ignore the most obviously dated parts of this book, the story will still pull you along.
I was somewhat disappointed that none of the engineers in this yarn pulled out their trusty sliderules!What absolutely amazed me was Smith’s depiction of a matriarchal planet—and the degree of vitriol which he put into it!
However, while on the planet of the Matriarchs, Kinnison couldn’t be more contemptuous—Smith depicts these women as completely unconcerned with their own appearance.
Smith’s depiction of an outraged Kinnison seems extreme.
There are layers of rollicking awesome, where action moves along at a good clip.
And then there are layers of painful awkwardness.
But you never quite know what layer's going to dominate in a chapter to chapter reading.I started reading it last year, and the first half's really a one-star affair.
The painful awkwardness dominates all the way through it.
Our hero's investigation and tracing of the structure of enlightened Civilization's enemy has led him to a planet ruled by women, you see, an extreme matriarchy because the males aren't really people, but non-sentient breeding stock.
Hope the finale isn't a let down. This was an adventure.
Though not the finest of the Lensman novels, it's close. And the first one I ever read. While outrageous and big in every sense, it still manages to channel a sense of amazement on its every purple exposition. Bold adventure! Ray Guns! Space axes! Horrifically alien sadists! A planet of naked ladies! And all wrapped up in the charming argot of long long ago. All Space Opera since owes a considerable debt to these bigger-than-life adventures. Great, garish fun!
The Lensman series simply keeps getting better with each volume. This one is just relentless.
They destroy the Overlords and Nadreck uses a thought screen drill to spy on the Eich, giving them a clue to the enemy headquarters in the Second Galaxy.They launch an attack on the Second Galaxy, defeat the enemy fleet and find an uncontacted planet called Klovia that they take control of and turn into a fortress.
Having finally defeated the bad guys Kinnison retires into the role of co-ordinator of the Second Galaxy and marries MacDougall.Read This: If you’ve read the previous ones and want even more twists and turns, some of which are pretty good.
— character of a thirty-foot, crocodile-headed, winged python with eyes that come out on stalks, but can’t manage the matriarch of a tribe of human Amazons (from the planet Lyrane II).We cannot, to be sure, be surprised that Kinnison’s skills at handling females are so deficient: after all, he’s spent his formative years galumphing around the Galaxy in search of the arch-villain Helmuth, not hanging out like a normal teenager.
The Over the top galaxy spanning story (if relatively small cast) and metaphors and descriptive text really payoff.The series suffers from mild racism and sexism that are typical of books from this time period.
we do finally get a female lensman character and a matriarchal world run by woman that does not immediately lead off to exploitation, but the sexism is still there.This is actually the best of the series so far it gets 5th star because I'm comparing it to other books in this time frame and is a great example of period pulp.
Great book, too many typographical errorsSecond Stage Lensmen, along with the rest of the Lensman series is space opera at its best. I've read and re-read it many times since I was a young teenager. Unfortunately, this edition is riddled with typographical errors and transcription mistakes to the extent that it distracts from the story. It's obvious that no effort was made to proofread the transcription before publication. These errors are the reason I did not give it 5 stars.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/3028741.htmlI got two thirds of the way through Second-Stage Lensmen before I realised that I was appalled by the prose, didn't care about the characters and was not even slightly excited by the plot.
Yeah, got into this one, too, and still do, for all it's faults.
Really enjoyed this, even the sloppy romantic sections didn't spoil the action.
Great spiraling space opera. Awesome. For lovers of old classic sci do thrills. Precursor to star wars. Great villains and intrigue with mental powers as the extra sauce.
I like the ending. Romantic.
Part of one of the first space operas. When you sit back and realize the staggering death count that slipped past you because the deaths weren't described in today's overly graphic terms....
At times, a yawnerI really feel this series peaked with galactic patrol. It's kind of repetitive and the characters are fairly two dimensional. Worsel the Velantian is my favorite.
The US has, it seems, always been keen on forcing its culture on the rest of the world which, by the time of the Galactic Patrol, it has, since Earth has a world government which is very much US-controlled.
It doesn’t take Freud to work out what parallel models were in operation at the time.It’s also worth noting that the Kinnison wedding is an unashamedly Christian one, the implication being that, with the exception of the alien Lensmen, all his human colleagues, family and friends are Christian also.No Jewish Lensmen then?
This is it, the penultimate book in the Lensman series, a series almost as famous for being the first Epic Space Oprea as it is for how marvelously exciting and inventive it was.First published in the pages of Astounding magazine back in 1941, this book mainly focuses upon the exploits of the "Second Stage" Lensmen: those who have gone through the advanced Arisian training in Galactic Patrol.
This one I probably started speed-reading to get it over with.★★ - Average.
Probably skimmed parts of it.★★★ - Decent.
This one had parts that inspired me, impressed me, made me laugh out loud, made me think - it got positive reactions and most of the rest of it was pretty decent too.★★★★★ - Amazing.
This is the best I've read of its genre, the ones I hold on to so I can re-read them and/or loan them out to people looking for a great book.
The best of these change the way I look at the world and operate within it.
This one lacked the page turning cadence of the first four, as the repetitive nature of the plot, simply expanding upon the previously established story elements.
By the end, Civilization controls both galaxies, the evil threat has been extinguished, and the Red and Grey lensmen settle down for a new life.
All the while, the Arisians manipulating the chess pieces of the Civilization to achieve the ultimate goal.There are very cool elements, the ever present increasing technology (they are now using null spheres, planet busters, mobile space stations that are in fact planets, and sun beams that feed directly off of a local star.
Cool stuff.
It was terribly obvious that this was from the paid-by-the-word era of writing. Every sentence was plumped up with extraneous phrases. Frequently, entire sentences, paragraphs, and even pages could have -- should have! -- been removed, with no detriment to the story. The whole thing could have been 40% shorter and still told the same tale. On top of that, it wasn't a great tale. Weakest of the series so far.
E.E. "Doc" Smith probably thought he was a feminist, and I guess for the late 1940's and early 1950's, the Lensmen series isn't too bad, and I can kind of look past it in most of the series. But in this one, which features the first (and only) female lensman, his whole "different but equal" shtick kind of gets a bit more in your face. There's also a lot less other interesting stuff going on to balance it out.
It took me five years and searching over 100 used book stores to find this story. It was the endpoint of E.E. "Doc" Smith's Sci-Fi Epic and it did not disappoint in its plot lines, new characters mixing with old characters, and action. If you love Space Opera, then this is a book and a series to try.
In this 5th book of Doc Smith's Lensman series, the Boskonians have again emerged as a threat to humanity and Kim Kinnison and the Galactic Patrol is confronting them again. And Kim now has a live interest - Clarissa MacDougall. Again, great space opera. Kim has to save the universe before he can marry Clarissa.
Kimball Kinnison has finally met his match: a fiery red-headed nurse! But before they can get married, Kinnison is called away on a mission: to begin the invasion of the home galaxy of the Boskonians! Teaming up with the three other Second-Stage lensmen: Worsel, Nadreck and Tregonsee, they must tackle two planets defended to the hilt.
This is the first of the series that lags a bit. The plot repeats much of what has been done in previous books. There are a few stunning twists and surprises, a few chapters I had no idea what was going to happen, but not as reliably as previous volumes. Still fun, rip roaring, bare knuckled space opera!
This is actually about the whole Lensman series. I found the books to be greatly engaging. I read them first as a child, then read them again in my 30's, then my 40's. Sure some (a lot) of the science is out to lunch now, but it is still a good action read.
One big question here (SPOILER ALERT!)...Why did Mac get to be a Lensman? Is it because the Samms and Kinnisons are finally coming together? Feels like a... dunno, maybe a reaction to increased woman's rights movement?Besides that, I loved the book, of course. The basic plot always works!
So soSmith's style of being excessively wordy aside, the story line was typical of the era.The kindle version needs to be re edited to correct numerous typographical and format errors. Such were found in earlier volumes as well, some worse than others.
