https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41716.Sahara
Dirk Pitt a marine engineer for an obscure American government agency in Washington City, Numa ...okay I will reveal its official name ...ready : National Underwater and Marine Agency...you asked for it.
However when Admiral James Sandecker, his loyal boss needs a favor, Mr. Pitt will do a little extracurricular activity on his off days.
Sorry for the detour...A gigantic toxic Red Tide is endlessly expanding very rapidly in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of western Africa to be precise Nigeria, make that the Niger River killing the creatures who make oxygen in the seas, if not stopped, no more Dirk Pitt novels.
Please, if you have seen the movie but have not read the book, do yourself a favor and pick up a copy.
The movie was absolute shit.
A complete bastardization of a great read.
3/4 of the book was not there.
The actors sucked and the screen play...I have no words.
The characters as Cussler writes them are fantastic.
You get so wrapped up in this book you will not go to bed until you finish it.
The story starts out with a bang and just keeps twisting and turning.
This is not pulitzer material but it is a shit load of fun to read.
This is the first book I've ever read that the movie is much better than the book.
Skip the book, see the movie.
In one book our hero saves the world from total oxygen depletion, takes down a dictator's regime, discovers a Civil War ironclad in the middle of the desert, stumbles upon the body and wreckage of a lost famous female pilot, uncovers a conspiracy to cover up the real demise of Abraham Lincoln, takes control of a dirty nuclear disposal site, frees a score of slaves in a gold mine, destroys one of the most wealthy and corrupt men in the world, successfully defends said slaves in an old fort from fighter jets, tanks and 2000 soldiers with just 40 people and luck.
I saw the movie & then read the book.
It wasn't bad, but was definitely a candy read.
Well, you get the picture.Cussler is definitely a writer to read rather than listen to as I realized with Atlantis Found (although that entire plot was a train wreck).
One of these days I might get around to reading one of the earlier books in the series, but I certainly won't read any later ones.
I can't say with any certainty, but it seems to me that Cussler is cranking them out & getting wilder ideas as the series goes on.
Time for another Clive Cussler Wednesday!For a guy working for Numa, Dirk Pitt spends a lot of time in the desert.I watched the movie based on this book several times.
I can see why Hollywood wanted to make a movie based on this.
I can see why Clive Cussler became disgusted with the whole thing.To the book...Dirk Pitt is called to find the source of a mysterious pollutant that is causing a red tide capable of ending all life on the planet.
Pitt wrangles with the dictator of Mali and a French billionaire to save the world.Great stuff, lots of derring-do.
I loved this book, it was one of my favorite until some of his new ones came out.
I love the surprise ending, it was a great book and the movie was great fun.
If all you have seen is the movie then you have missed the best part of the duo.
They play well off of each other and the story moves forward as seen through their eyes.
Even though you know that everything will be all right these books are still fun to read.
Love you CLIVE CUSSLER.
The best part of his books is that the language and sex is minimal or non existence!
Statements like this got the feminist inside of me all sorts of angry...'Like most women, Eva couldn't resist a take-charge man.''Like too many women who are drawn to aloof men who treat them indifferently, she could not help herself from falling in love with him.''Strangely, it was Pitt and not the woman who saw a magnificence in the parched and hostile landscape, despite the fact that it had almost killed him.''To a man, the Aussies climbed the steep bank to express their thanks and heartily shake Pitt and Giordino's hands.'What does that even mean?
Great survival adventure with zombies and toxic waste all on top of a shocking conspiracy theory. I know that movies never ever live up to the books they were based on, but this one takes the cake. If I heard right, Cussler even tried to sue the movie for using his character names and book title because the movie was so far from the book. The characters were all wrong, the plot was missing its key element and the action (that movies usually can replicate to a degree) was boring. But, the book still rocks!
โคตรสนุก เปน Action/Adventure ทีลุนไปกับการเเกปัญหาเฉพาะหนาของสถานการณวายปวงที Pitt ตองเจอ สเกลเรืองใหญมาก (ครอบคลุมสวนใหญของเเอฟริกา) ถาใครชอบเเนว อินเดียนาโจนสผสมกับอีธาน ฮันส เเนะนำเลยครับ
โคตรสนุก เป็น Action/Adventure ท่ีลุ้นไปกับการเเก้ปัญหาเฉพาะหน้าของสถานการณ์วายป่วงที่ Pitt ต้องเจอ สเกลเรื่องใหญ่มาก (ครอบคลุมส่วนใหญ่ของเเอฟริกา) ถ้าใครชอบเเนว อินเดียน่าโจนส์ผสมกับอีธาน ฮันส์ เเนะนำเลยครับ
After that scene I pretty much had a negative attitude towards everything else that was to come.There were a couple of cartoon villains who liked to chat with our heroes revealing their evil plans.
I'm overly exaggerating, no kid lost a ball, but their personalities/emotions/whatever did seem to jump all over the place throughout the book.A lot of the conversation read like entries in an encyclopedia.
The Lincoln conspiracy was an interesting idea too.I'd read another or three of Cussler's books without any hesitation.(I watched the movie with Matthew-I-hate-wearing-shirts-McConaughey and Steve Zahn right after I finished the book and was actually entertained.
Though certainly containing some intriguing mystery, the writing is very bland and unexciting; the action is ridiculous and unnecessarily violent; the dialogue is flat and limited to lengthy tech talk that would make a star fleet engineer's head spin; and the character development is basic at best.
Furthermore, this book is pretty sexist--take this passage: "Like most women, Eva couldn't resist a take-charge man." On the other hand, the movie is actually way better, and has brisk, witty dialogue; fun and mostly believable action; intriguing historical mysteries; good humor; and great acting.
Watch the movie (it has better writing).
I am a great fan of action adventure and Cussler is like one of the superstars of this genre.
I meant to read his book for a long time and Finally i finished Sahara.
I am glad that I've started Cussler with this one.
:D  Full on action right from the start.
He takes a greatstory line, in and of itself, and throws in some historical based plots that enrich the reading experience.
This was a unique read for me and I am now moving on to other Cussler novels.Brilliant twists and turns.
A must read for fans of the fast paced action genre.
Another great Clive Cussler book. I really liked the crazed-zombie-style aspect of the Africans that got contaminated. There's also the stellar opening, which is really what makes these books so good - they pull you in quickly with that historical fiction.I read this a few years after watching the movie, and after I'd read the other 10 books. It's a good read, and I'd pick it up in your used bookstore (do we really need another 90 million of these in print?)
2.75 stars This is a macho action book that's over the top with some exciting stuff. The problem for me is that it was way too long and there isn't much character development. The two prologues (yes, there are two) had little to do with the rest of the story. Generally, it's just not my type of book, but they're are some exciting, though somewhat ridiculous, action scenes that bumped up my rating.
Book Report: Sahara Clive Cussler’s novel Sahara astounded me with its intense plot, diverse characters, and intriguing settings. As amazing as the Movie Sahara is, the book it’s based on threw it out of the water. Without a doubt, Sahara is one of the best books I have ever read. One of the things that captured me in Sahara was all of the remarkable settings, one of which was the desert itself. The main characters Dirk Pitt and Al Giordino cross the Sahara many times, once my an old Avion Voiso
Book Report: Sahara	Clive Cussler’s novel Sahara astounded me with its intense plot, diverse characters, and intriguing settings.
The main characters Dirk Pitt and Al Giordino cross the Sahara many times, once my an old Avion Voison car, and again using an old truck, then again by walking towards the border out of Mali.
Another thing about Sahara that intrigued me is its mixture of characters.
Sahara has every type of character from cruel monsters of people, to beautiful humanitarians who only want to help others.
The diversity of characters in the book Sahara left me transfixed.
Sirven para distraerse y evadirse por momentos de la realidad, y Sahara, en este sentido, cumplió su cometido.Comienza con un capítulo diferente de lo que luego será la aventura principal, pero con el que acaba por conectar la historia.
Por lo que parece, el autor estructura sus novelas siguiendo ese patrón, aunque luego es muy imaginativo a la hora de crear aventuras siguiendo un cierto molde determinado.En el caso de esta obra, se trata de una aventura africana, un elemento que me decidió a iniciar la lectura.

With 568 pages of stilted dialogue and ridiculous scenarios this was a tough one to get through. I thought it would be a good poolside/train read but really didn't enjoy it.
a creeping red tide of death ......
this is destroying the latter and therefore the lives of everyone on the planet is at risk it appears to come from an organisation that appears to be legal and above board but of course everything is never as it seems added to this u have warring african countries and pitt and giordino have to once again pit all their wits to survive and avert the disaster rather co-incidental about the plane and the texas ship and the love interest but go with itjust a few pointers - surely the man they captured and kept in the truck would not have survived without water, both when they were with him and afterwards; look out for the kid bev
มันสระเบิดระเบอตามยีหอของเดิรก พิตต และ อัล คูหู. งานนีเขาพาไปตะลุยทะเลทรายซาฮารา. สูกับเหลาราย (ทีดูจะไมคอยรายกาจสักเทาไหร). ทีโหดรายมากกวานาจะเปนสภาพอวดลอมกลางทะเลทราย แนละยังไงกฝามาไดแมจะทุลักทุเล แตงานนีไมมีกระดูกหัก ซีโครงเดาะ อีกทังยังแลนเรือฝาทะเลทรายอีกตางหาก.
มันส์ระเบิดระเบ้อตามยี่ห้อของเดิร์ก พิตต์ และ อัล คู่หู. งานนี้เขาพาไปตะลุยทะเลทรายซาฮาร่า. สู้กับเหล่าร้าย (ที่ดูจะไม่ค่อยร้ายกาจสักเท่าไหร่). ที่โหดร้ายมากกว่าน่าจะเป็นสภาพอวดล้อมกลางทะเลทราย แน่ล่ะยังไงก็ฝ่ามาได้แม้จะทุลักทุเล แต่งานนี้ไม่มีกระดูกหัก ซี่โครงเดาะ อีกทั้งยังแล่นเรือฝ่าทะเลทรายอีกต่างหาก.

But when Cussler wants to convey some technical information, whether it's Pitt, Giordino, Some Other Character, or an expert making an appearance in this book, they immediately drop into a cadence I'd describe as College Textbook.The worst was when Pitt and Giordino were a breath away from death in the desert and dragged themselves into a cave to escape the relentless sun.
Speaking in general terms, men want to know WHAT is happening...
well, on second thought, everyone likes a story with a lot of action, but women want to understand the characters' motivation for their actions.
He has an extra oomph about him which is missing in Indie.Sahara starts with a scene just a week before the surrender of Confederate forces of Robert E.
Only the tour guide escapes with his life.This starts the fast pace story.
Dirk Pitt working in Egypt rescues Dr. Eva Rojas, a scientist working for the World Health Organization, from a mysterious attacker.
Shortly thereafter, Eva flies to Mali with an international team of scientists to investigate a mysterious disease that has been reported from various desert villages.In the meanwhile a strange red tide growing unnaturally fast threatens to consume the world's oxygen supply and extinguish almost all life.
Wish it had more Civil War content, instead of it just being a subtext...I want to talk about the Movie that came out about this...
when I read a book, my imagination always supplies the face and mannerisms and perhaps the actor- of the characters in the text.I just wanted to say that I was at first skeptical, then happy with the casting of Matthew McConagnahy as Dirk Pitt!
Of course, although I love Steve Zahn- and he was hilarious in Sahara, he is absolutely WRONG for Al Giordino.
he would be a closer match to the character in Cussler's series.
Reading some of the reviews, I see some people didn't like this book, but I actually enjoyed this book a lot.
I had been going through the bargain bin of books at the local store and found this book as a marked-down paperback.
I read the back of the book and it sounded interesting, so I picked it up.
But overall the story is well-paced, the characters fun, and the action interesting.
It might not be for everyone, but if you're looking for an action and adventure book with colorful characters, fun scenes, and some pretty cool historical trivia, you should enjoy this book.
L'unico (fino ad oggi) romanzo di Cussler del quale hanno fatto pure un film. Peccato, meriterebbe di più questo autore.
It's a rollicking adventure story, but the barest of fig leaves over Cussler's usual misogyny.
It was an ok story. A team of scientists are trying to find the cause of a natural disaster whilst being hampered by an evil dictator of a desert county. But I found it a bit far fetched as the main character had an almost MacGyver knack of knowing enough about everything to get out of every single problem thrown at him and still have time to fall head over heels in love.The book picks up the more the story unfolds and has a lot of action but somehow didn’t draw me in enough to want to read more.
One of the better Dirk Pitt novels, probably why it was chosen to be made into a movie back in the day.
great love the action
