https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59598.Life_After_Life

A Milestone!Great read without a doubt, as it accounted for evidence backed not only by personal encounters, but also by research. In all actuality, the author was the one who brought into light the term NDE at a time when it was only a hearsay. Faith is immense, and that’s what the author’s accounts have implicitly, and oftentimes explicitly, denoted. Great read and highly recommended!
the book sat there for 2 months when I finally just picked it up to investigate and as you guessed, it was Life After Life.
I began reading it and within the 1st chapter was surprised how interesting it was because I do not usually read these types of books.
Really I think I was just mad at god at the time but by the end of this book I admitted to myself I did believe in some kind higher power.
This book really effected me.
Great book.
Even if you do not believe in this stuff, its interesting.
This is my first book that I've read about people's life after death experiences.
I knew that many people had such experiences and so I looked on amazon to see if any books had been written.
I was surprised to see just how many books have been written.
I chose to read Life after Life because it "investigates more than one hundred case studies of people who experienced "clinical death" and were subsequently revived," and then categorizes these people's experiences into events that the people experienced in common.
I look forward to comparing this to other books on life after death.
Moody does an excellent job at explaining his research on life after life.
This book was the most fascinating book I've ever read.
I've watched a lot of videos on peoples experience with the after life and seeing all of them draw similar stories and experiences blew my mind.
I definitely have a completely different view on death, a calm and accepting view.
I highly recommend reading this book at least once in your life.
There is no bias, Moody does an excellent job at sharing the stories of others as well as making solid points from a scientific stand point.
Σε άλλα κεφάλαια υπάρχουν αναφορές στον πρώτο άνθρωπο στον κόσμο που κατέγραψε μία μεταθανάτια εμπειρία - τον Πλάτωνα - πολλούς αιώνες πριν, στο θιβετιανό βιβλίο των νεκρών που αποτελείται από ακριβείς περιγραφές των μαρτυριών από τους ασθενείς , καθώς και τις διάφορες εξηγήσεις που δίνει για αυτό το φαινόμενο η θρησκεία, η ιατρική, η ψυχολογία και η νευρολογία.Το βιβλίο ΔΕΝ δίνει απάντηση στο πώς συμβαίνουν αυτά τα φαινόμενα γιατί ακόμα ΔΕΝ υπάρχει ξεκάθαρη απάντηση περί του θέματος, παρά μόνο θεωρίες.
I, personally, will be forever thankful to the nurse who refused to give up on my Momma 45 years ago, while the doctor was telling my Dad that he was sorry and they did all they could to save her, the nurse (a family friend) had stayed in the room, climbed up on the bed, straddled Momma's waist, hooked her hands together and brought them down on Momma's chest with "everything in me".
The paddles hadn't worked but the sheer determination and love of this little nurse started her heart and brought Momma back.Of course, Momma was furious because she said "I was in Heaven, why didn't ya'll just leave me alone."Ah, Momma, you're there now and I miss you ...
Personally, I have a science background combined with a strong faith, and this book does a great job of revealing a, "middle way of interpreting -- a way which neither rejects these experiences on the basis that they do not constitute scientific or local proof NOR sensationalizes them by resorting to vague emotional claims that they 'prove' that there is life after death" (p.
In addition, I particularly enjoyed Chapter 3, which relates the personal case studies that had been relayed to Dr. Moody to historical texts, including mainstream religions (The Bible), philosophies (Plato), and even the Tibetan Book of the Dead.This book offers a historical, and insightful relation of some modern ideas relating to death and the potential for life after death.
LIfe After Life, written by fellow Alabamian, Paul Moody, covers a subject that I have long found compelling - "near death experiences." You know, those strange occurrences when a person who is clinically "dead," actually sees him or herself from a vantage point way above their lifeless body.
Those interviews are documented in "Life After Life: The Investigation of a Phenomenon - Survival of Bodily Death," as well as quite a few other books written by Dr. Moody alone and with other contributors.The only reason why I didn't give the book 5 stars is because it was a little more "clinical" than what I would like for it to have been.
As an undergraduate majoring in philosophy, Raymond Moody, attended a meeting in 1965 with Dr. George Ritchie, who spoke about his experience of being pronounced dead twice due to pneumonia in an Army hospital in 1943.
Ritchie claimed his consciousness survived and traveled out of his body during more than nine minutes when he was clinically dead.
I can relate to this since I attended the same meeting and came away with the firm conviction that Ritchie was sincere and truthful in what he believed happened to him.
Moody was so inspired that he spent the next forty-five years studying what he called "near death experiences" (NDE).
Where they thought they "went" and what they saw.
Enough detail and verification is/was added that the person who had the experience couldn't have possibly known if what they said hadn't happened.And this is book is not just a diatribe of a single instance that has made some people wealthy for the book deal (Heaven can Wait, Dying to be Me, are two good examples) but rather this is a selected group of as I said, 150, with detailed accounts of what happened (anonymous only because those who volunteered didn't want scrutiny or fame).
A lot of people experience a very quiet and peaceful feeling, and others meet other people, like family members or people who are close to you that have already died there to comfort you, they also see a very fast sort of playback of their life, and are sort of asked if they have accomplished a fulfilled life.
There is also a lot of debate and different beliefs about what happens after life, and here are the researched phenomenons of people who have experienced life after death, and I rate this book a 5 star, and I encourage everyone to read it!
I read this book a looooooong time ago. It's been updated since then. It is absorbing, extremely interesting, and ultimately hopeful. I would highly recommend it.
Although this book goes against what I believe in some ways, and has not convinced me otherwise, it is still an interesting read, and given the increasing interest in near-death experiences, familiarity with this influential and easy-to-read study can be very enriching.
If we are going to down this road, then there may be reason to believe that everyone essentially goes to a "heaven" as it were (though those who take their own lives are punished for a time, it seems) (hide spoiler)]There certainly isn't enough to convince anyone that the afterlife Moody's subjects claim to have seen is an accurate reflection of the truth.
The primary reason for reading this book was to try and find an answer to the following question: "can human consciousness survive bodily death"?
Having recently read Koestler, I certainly feel that any "proof" of the existence of the Afterlife resides within the critical distinction between the Brain and the Mind,and thus our understanding of the Ghost in the Machine.
This was a fascinating read, and I certainly feel that I making progress with my professed aim of answering the question: "can consciousness survive bodily death".
I am guessing this is whatpsychiatrist researchers do when presented with an unknown behavior...I liked the approach...What is so fascinating is that the model can exist at all, because these cases do have similar traits.Thirdly, as philosopher, he is able to relate these experiences to various cultural texts and religions...some of which closely corroborate his "model of symptons." I appreciate that the book is not purely clinical.This book won't necessarily change your life, but it may make you question certain abstracts in the living world...for instance why Christianity insists on a dichotomy of heaven and hell when none on these witnesses could really describe what they saw as either (or what they expected of either place.) On the flip side, many of the stories suggest that religion or some sort of spiritual practice is necessary and important for a person's development over a life.
Từ đó suy ra, không một từ ngữ nào của con người có thể đưa ra nhiều hơn là việc đưa ra một chỉ dẫn - tương tự như huyền thoại hay mọi phương diện khác - về tính xác thực của những gì tồn tại ở thế giới bên kia.""Vấn đề này gợi đến một quá trình tâm lý ai cũng biết.
However, I never thought that it might be possible for anyone to actually experience death and return to tell us what it is like.
Actually in a poll taken by Gallup in 1982 about 8,000,000 people in America acknowledged they had an experience where their Consciousness left their natural body.
They experienced death and returned.Scientists today are struggling with an explanation of Consciousness.
However, another school of thought insists that Consciousness has always been and will always be.
It is from "Everlasting to Everlasting." Each of us shares this Consciousness, and the immortal life that goes along with it.This is a book for the Ages.
Интересът към такъв тип книги определено възниква у човек при определени обстоятелства и затова често може да останеш разочарован.
Наистина се усеща искреността и вярата в написаното от страна на автора, който се старае в книгата да обхване всичко, което четящият може да се запита и това е хубаво, имайки предвид какво табу е темата за смъртта и колко е важно да се пише за нея и за това какво се случва след смъртта.
И забавната част е, че описаната обща рамка за преживяванията близо до смъртта, може да те накарат да си направиш лично проучване.

Moody's classic, Life After Life, is a must read for all who have yet to be introduced to the near-death phenomenon.
A large portion of this book is personal accounts of those who have experienced the survival of consciousness.
In the second half of the book, possible explanations and religious/spiritual parallels are explored, but in the end, the subject is left open for the reader to consider.
Many years have passed since this book was written and we still have no definite proof of life after death.
However, we are closer than ever before to understanding the complexities of the human mind and science can still not explain these happenings fully.
Drawing on a series of personal interviews and encounters, Dr. Moody provides a concise, well-organized exploration of the phenomenon known as clinical death, or near-death experiences. The universality of specific traits associated with said experiences is thoroughly intriguing, both for their general similarities as well as certain ties to ancient religious and philosophical modes of thought. A short yet highly thought-provoking read, with the added benefit of imparting a measure of hope. Perhaps there really is more after life.
The grandfather of the near-death experience books, which allowed people to come forward with stories of their experiences, which before (and even now) were criticized or denied by those around them. Worth reading.
Interesting book. This is a good beginners book for those interested in this type of genre.
A comprehensive examination of some of the most mysterious and fascinating personal experiences with death.
It had a kind of beauty to it, but Ockham's razor cut it to ribbons. Pretty ribbons.
Nacida y criada en un medio muy católico, resulta que al final no lo era tanto, porque mis papás tenían sus inquietudes al respecto, y esto lo digo no porque los católicos no crean en una vida más allá, sino que porque no suelen creerlo de esta manera tan poco ortodoxa, por así decirlo.Para mí, en todo caso, fue un alivio.
En la época creciente de las dudas existenciales, fue bueno saber que podía haber una naturaleza inevitable de algo más, y que fuera implícitamente aceptada por mis progenitores.
Sencillo, porque por algo lo pude entender tan chica, y muy innovador para su época.
Truly amazing. I liked the approach of Dr Moody - not fully scientific- but a far cry away from sensationalist approach of many writers who followed on this subject.
Very interesting....probably a book everyone should read.
Non credo sarei mai arrivato, da solo, a leggere un libro del genere.Non credo neanche mi sarebbe mai passato nell'anticamera del cervello l'idea di andare a comprarlo, sopratutto perchè il tema trattato è anche una di quelle che considero le mie paure ataviche: l'idea del "dopo".È uno di quei pensieri che fin da ragazzino ha avuto l'effetto di farmi scomparire immediatamente il sonno mentre magari mi rigiravo a letto, con la mente che vagava nelle più assurde riflessioni e pensieri, cercando di dare un senso ed una forma a qualcosa che per definizione stessa è impossibile delineare.Da una chiacchierata, che marginalmente trattava i temi del libro, con un'amica, sono stato consigliato alla lettura.
Consiglio che si è materializzato quando il titolo in questione mi è stato prestato e quindi letto in un'unica botta in poche ore.Si tratta sicuramente di una lettura scorrevole, con un'impostazione spiccatamente accademica che ho apprezzato da subito, scorrendo l'indice e l'organizzazione.
