https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380364.Dog_Soldiers
John Converse, a journalist, whose claim to fame is his ability to produce compelling headlines (stories to go with the headlines, well that is where things go haywire), is in Vietnam, but he isn’t really sure why he is still there.
It was important that the value of human life not decline.”Heavy things are going down.
Marge is then supposed to turn the heroin over to the distributors.
Readers don’t like these characters and they aren’t supposed to.
This novel is a time capsule of a period when the last bits of naivety and innocence in America are being exchanged for cynicism and skepticism.
But Dog Soliders captures what must have felt like the plunge into the abyss of amorality that the so-called counterculture degenerated into in those scary post-Manson days when some revolutionaries argued with a straight face that the original Chuckie doll was right to slaughter the bourgeoisie (excuse me, "the pigs") because---dig, baby---American corruption and hypocrisy was way past redemption.
The two main characters, Converse and Hicks, are both corrupt in their own ways, the former a writer scrambling to recapture his gonads by running "scag" into the States after a terrifying breakdown on a Nam battlefield, and the latter a self-fashioned zen/samurai merchant marine who in trying moments reaches for his submachine gun to get to nirvana.
I began this book thinking it would be about the Vietnam War told from the perspective of an in-country reporter named John Converse.
I came to find that, while a few early scenes were set in Vietnam and Converse did occasionally reflect on his time spent there, the focus of the book is a drug deal that goes wrong--horribly, horribly wrong.
None of the characters are likable people and they have the moral sensibilities of a gnat, but they're entertaining and a reflection of the shifting values embodied by the time period (when asked why he tried to move heroin from Vietnam to the U.S., Converse replies, "You hear stories over there.
Whenever I spy a cop car in my rearview mirror I feel like they might be coming after me.
I could probably worry about anything if I put my mind to it.) (That it isn't impossible and bad shit happens all of the time is not a mind rester.) I felt something like that reading Dog Soldiers.
It wasn't hard at all to make it all about me and life in the world now and all the joining them and hoping there is going to be a long view at all.
Dog Soldiers might've been a big picture book when it came out about America after the Vietnam war.
We get to know the protagonist, an ostensible journalist in Vietnam who gets involved in a maladroit heroin deal that eventually and inevitably encompasses his family.Secondly, I could not help but compare this fine work, which won the National Book Award for fiction in 1975, with Cormac McCarthy’s 2005 novel No Country for Old Men. Both avoid sympathetic euphemisms and instead boldly and simply illustrate a Boschian landscape of hellish design and consequence.
No doubt McCarthy’s work is the more brutal, but Stone’s stark realism and objective sensibility is the more timely chronicle.
Finally, in his heavy use of drug depiction and counterculture language, Stone’s voice sounds Hunter Thompson like in its eulogy of the lost optimism of the 60s, looking back as they both do and wistfully long for the “high-water mark” that is past.
As he gets ready to return home, he gets involved with a deal to smuggle a large quantity of almost pure heroin back into the states, and he has reason to think that the CIA is covertly sponsoring the plan.Converse recruits a former soldier, Hicks, to get the dope back into the States and hand it off to his wife, Marge.
Converse returns home to find the deal is blown and is soon in desperate trouble himself.Even though most of this book is set in the U.S., it's really about the effect that Vietnam had on America.
I always wrote Stone off as a post-Hemingway tough guy writer (which on some levels he is), and really wish someone had slapped me and forced one of his books into my hand.
He uses the stark storytelling of Hemingway with the dark forebodings of Conrad and the apocalyptic humor of Nathaniel West.
Lots of allusions to government corruption and the Manson family, this is the novel of the dark heart of early 70’s America, but its concerns seem if not more so, at least as pressing in our new "merciless age"(to quote Bowles).
Converse presents perhaps the most destructive artist figure in a generation of American novels; he says of bringing the scag to San Francisco: "I feel like this is the first real thing I ever did in my life." Yet it's Hicks who's the greater creation, an American samurai saddled w/ a serious love of booze & an inborn commitment to the principles of Zen. Soon after coming ashore in the States, Hicks is spurred to running for his wife w/Converse's wife Marge, a woman w/ rich conflicts of her own, on the one hand a marvelously free & smart definition of marriage -- & motherhood -- on the other an abject determination to get as high as she can.
Source: http://www.enotes.com/topics/dog-sold...From the book:  The last moral objection that Converse experienced in the traditional manner had been his reaction to the Great Elephant Zap of the previous year.
Despite its initial scenes in Vietnam, however, Dog Soldiers concentrates not on combat but on the impact of the war on the moral certainties, loyalties, and conscience of the civilian United States, where, as Stone later said, “all sorts of little bills were coming up due for payment.” The novel argues that the Vietnam War most affected values back home, infecting the survivors with greed and corruption summed up in the heroin underworld.
So when I am curious about what was going on in America's soul during that time period I turn to works of fiction - books and movies.
A look into the drug culture in (almost) Post-Vietnam/Post-Counterculture America.
Drugs had taken over and hard nosed criminals had moved in.
A drug fueled, violent, paranoid, cynical story populated by addicts, burned out hippies, corrupt cops, world weary veterans and so on.
I like the mix of drug haze, violence and burned out cynical America.
It might not seem that fresh and cutting edge nowadays, but it still gives you a strong feeling for what was going on in America in the first half of the 1970's.
I want to like this book, I want to be hip to the cool, 60/70s druggie counterculture.
He employs his friend Hicks to smuggle the Heroin into America and hand it off to his wife, Marge.
When Hicks tries to hand the drugs off to Marge they are intercepted by two henchman, but escape.
Meanwhile, these same men find Converse, who has returned to the US, and force him to try to make Hicks and Marge turn over the drugs by threat of death.
It is barely explained until the end who these men that are chasing Hicks and Marge are until the end.
Instead he ends up with a sort-of-thriller where the characters just seem to do an awful lot of shallow whining about obliquely hinted at social changes while getting shunted from one plot-point to the next.This was published a year after Thomas Pynchon's 'Gravity's Rainbow' and a year before William Gaddis's 'JR' (both of which, along with Dog Soliders, won the national book award in their respective years), both of those books are massive, massively rich stylistic fugues which helped push our idea of what the the novel is and can do into extreme, new directions.
Oh yeah, and sports and part-time work at Winn Dixie and girls and pot and going to movies.
So this book is a look at a time and place involving a couple of young wasted lives pursuing a fool's dream involving heroin.
You want to read a good and sordid book about drugs and dreams, then this is one for you.
I probably read it at the right time in life.
On the cover of Robert Stone's "Dog Soldiers" a blurb from Washington Post Book World screams "The Most Important Novel of the Year".
The main characters are John Converse, a low-level journalist and an aspiring writer, his wife, Marge, and an American soldier, Ray Hicks, who is a sort of Converse's friend.
The bulk of the plot describes attempts of numerous bad characters to get that package in various California locations.
More talented writers can write about big issues using small words.What saves "Dog Soldiers" from a two-star rating is an adept portrayal of the insanity and horrors of war and of the societal breakdown caused by the war.
“If you think someone’s doing you wrong, it’s not for you to judge. Kill them first and then God can do the judging.”The time was rough and the time was wild. The counterculture was on the rise and then it was in decline. Reaction and decadence were settling in.“If you haven't fought for your life for something you want, you don't know what's life all about.”In the tumultuous times many are sucked in by the dangerous undercurrents and the price of survival grows high.
Enjoyable, but did not really get under my skin.
It suddenly dawned on me that I read too many books on taking drugs.
They tend to get into the details alot and for someone who doesn't do them I sure know how!I'm just gonna let that linger here and not comment whether it's a good thing or bad.I like Stone's writing style and that's why I've continued to read his work even though the story here wasn't anything special.
(view spoiler)[I guess there was something special about Hicks, maybe I saw him through Marge's eyes, I don't know.
Otherwise the novel worked as a semi-entertaining piece of writing that had action, violence and drugs.
As one of them thinks after watching US pilots mow down elephants that were ostensibly being used by the North Vietnamese to carry supplies, a variety of the dissonance that I think just about all of us uneasily live with these days, "if the world is going to contain elephants pursued by flying men, people are just naturally going to want to get high."This character is John Converse, a journalist who goes to Vietnam with the aspiration of writing something about the war, but ends up agreeing to help "move" three kilos of heroin after they've been smuggled back to the US by an old military buddy/acquaintance/Nietzsche and Buddhism enthusiast/psychopath (?) named Ray Hicks.
John Converse decides to smuggle heroin from Vietnam to the U.S. almost on a whim, and his wife Marge and "friend" Hicks end up bearing the burden of unloading it while John is pursued by a team of possible federal agents.It's pretty easy to tell when I don't get a book, and in this case I seemed to be missing crucial context about Vietnam and how the world worked in the mid-1970's.
The tragic ending also largely stumped me and whatever message I felt I was supposed to derive from it was drowned in the vague pretenses of Stone's narration and glimpses into the characters' thoughts.
The awesomeness of this book comes and goes, but if you're interested tight brilliant sleazeball dialogue with metaphysical undertones, there's sections of this that were made for you.
This is Heart of Darkness put in the Vietnam War times and fueled by the addiction and money profits of smack. I liked the hard-nosed attitudes and trancy prose. Rather grim at times.
What do you think, do Vietnam War novels belong on the historical fiction shelf, now?
And I mean, I smoked a bunch of pot in high school and college, dropped some acid, did a little coke.
But I quit all that by age 23 and felt a little stunned to see that people my age were advocating for the legalization of pot....
I mean, there's a little kid.
You wonder what's possible, in the end, for Marge and John, what happens to people like this afterwards.
In the end, Converse and Marge are left standing, Hicks is dead, and the dope is in the hands of the crooked federal agent and his accomplice, the woman who set up the dope deal in the first place.This is good, red-blooded adventure, but it is also full of trenchant satire on various aspects of the 1965-1973 counterculture era: the supercool behavior, the drug scene, the spiritual side of it, the criminal elements, and the guiltless, unattached sex.
Dog Soldiers follows the story of a war journalist, a marine and the journalist’s wife as the plan a smuggling deal.
Converse (journalist) plans to ship heroin from Vietnam on a marine vessel with the help of Hicks (marine).
When Hicks gets to America he meets up with Converse’s wife Marge but they are been followed.
Hicks and Marge go on the run trying to save the heroin, unsure whether he has been double crossed by Converse or the Supplier.
Hicks is still dealing with issues of Vietnam and becoming paranoid and a growing attraction to Nietzsche.
There are some funny observations in here, and the one that made me laugh the most is when Converse thinks, "In a world where flying men hunted down elephants, people were just going to want to get high." This in reference to rumors that American helicopters were shooting at elephants as they had been deemed transportation for the Vietcong.It all goes downhill from there, because once things go back over to America, it turns into the kind of drug-soaked narrative that I haven't much cared for all through the Time 100 project.
It took me a while to start enjoying this book about three people near the end of the Vietnam war who decide to smuggle 3 kilos of heroin into the states.
It felt a little dated, and grounded in an ancient sense of cool, where a willingness to get high was supposed to be an indicator of your superiority as a human being.
Hicks' delirium on his trip down the mountain was the high point for me, written so as to get you as deep into the mind of a character as is possible.
Hicks and Marge go on the lam in order to find a profitable way to offload the drugs, while Antheil, an “agent,” and his two thugs, Danskin and Smitty, pursue them.
That, for Stone, is the true problem with heroin and other drugs.Dieter’s final moments are used up trying to convince Hicks to throw the dope away, to convince him that dope is a distraction.
It’s almost as if he wants the drugs as a thing unto itself, which is exactly what Hicks thinks to himself while in his delirious state at the end of the novel: “without the pack, things would be much easier.
A drug deal gone bad, lots of guns and violence is usually fodder for a good novel. This book was founded on a good idea and had all three of those elements. Unfortunately the writing was awful. As the story progressed the writing did improve some, but the last 30 pages were almost unbearable. It seems like Stone struggled to sound like someone or something he is not. When you rely on sentences like, "The flashing lights blinded him and oppressed his brain." You are struggling.
Neverovatno je koliko obrada materije može da učini knjigu drugačijom; raspričani dijalozim, u ovom slučaju, klasičnu žanrovsku priču izdižu na mejnstrim nivo.
So if your cup of tea is something like a chamber play, where the author focuses on three or four main figures, you might dismiss this book.
If you are generally fond of two distinct genres – gloomy satire and strong suspense – "Dog Soldiers" and most books by Robert Stone should leave you more than satisfied.
These detours from the immediate storyline, while seemingly distracting and insignificant, are written so well that they're worth the lingering.I would like to add that the film version (titled "Who'll Stop the Rain") isn't as great; even the late Robert Stone wasn't a fan.
