https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357464.Wild_Mind
I enjoyed this more than Writing Down the Bones: Freeing the Writer Within. I find Goldberg's writing infinitely relaxing. After I read The True Secret of Writing: Connecting Life with Language I even looked into doing a Vipassana meditation retreat. Beginners have to start with a 10-day retreat. That's 10 days of vegetarian food, including only fruit after midday. I decided just to keep reading Goldberg's books instead.
I just finished reading Natalie Goldberg’s book on writing.
I don’t know how the book ended up in my hands but now that I’m writing, I was intrigued.
The book is part of Bantam’s New Age collection, so there’s a lot the author tries to convey in a spiritual/philosophical vein.
As for the book’s structure, I don’t think there was any.
First, she gives four things you must do in order to be a writer and do writing: (1) keep your hand moving; (2) lose control; (3) be specific; and (4) don’t think.
Don’t wait” (p.
Most writers refer to Writing Down the Bones as a good book to read, but I'd have to say that I enjoyed the sequel better. Wild Mind promotes what Goldberg calls Writing Practice, which is when you free-write until the nonsense turns into sense. It's a collection of essays that touch on life and art issues and it is truly one of my favorite books on writing to date.
Natalie Goldberg has definitely been a writing guru and true inspiration for me over the years.
This book, along with her other book, Writing Down the Bones, sit on my desk as books I can open I be reminded why I write and how to get into the meat of how to write.
"You have to let writing eat your life and follow it where it takes you.
You fit into it; it doesn't fit neatly into your life.
It makes you wild..." she writes.Her books morphed me from writing as a "lust" into writing being a "passion" for me.
When I got the copy of Wild Mind: Living the Writer's Life and started to read it, I caught myself wanting to read more and trying all the "Try This" that I could.
Wild Mind also focuses on getting rid of what Goldberg calls "Monkey Mind." It's that little critic that says I stink at writing.
"So our job as writers is to not diddle around our whole lives in the [monkey mind:] but to take one big step out of it and sink into the big sky and write from there.
She is both the wise sage seeming to know more about the art of writing than you ever guessed, and at other times she seems very distant and naive.At one point she talks about how she had a job that required her to go in once a week, and found that this was too much for her to handle and got in the way of her writing.
I would certainly be interested in reading her other novel, Writing Down the Bones, since it's typically seen as a better guide for writers than this book.
the best book i've read about writing so far. not a lot of technical instructions but rather soulful and that's what writing's really about in my opinion
Wild Mind is Natalie Goldberg's follow up to the classic how-to book Writing Down the Bones.
I'd read both books in the early '90s, Bones on a long bus ride from South Texas to New York, and Wild Mind soon after when Goldberg was doing a reading in the city.
The book not only reintroduced me to the rules of writing practice, but it also relaxed my soul with its grounded prose and Goldberg's knack for bringing a reader into the present--not just waking me up to the words on the page, but to everything going on around me.
It took me more than a decade to give this book another read.
Since I read Wild Mind and Writing Down the Bones practically at the same time, I have them in my head as one book.
While I was writing, several deer appeared in my yard looking for food, so I wrote about that.
Before I knew it, I was out of Monkey Mind and in full-fledged Wild Mind.
Natalie's writing is so refreshing and full of enthusiam about writing.
There are lots of good writing tips for all levels of writers and poets alike.I never thought about how a writer feels when they reach the ending of a story.
A good author lives with their character day in day out and then closes the door.
It's got to be like losing a best friend.
I feel like she is not just another author but a friend helping me take the plunge into the writing world with my eyes wide open.
I had a group of writer friends years ago who met regularly to do these exercises. Was like spiritual food. Highly recommended for anyone living the creative life.
This is a great book if you want to write.
I love reading and writing, so this book amazed me, even as a high school student.
Natalie Goldberg has a way of teaching you to pull out everything inside of you and slap it caty-whampus on a page.
It gets you writing in a theraputic way.
A must-read for anyone who is experiencing writers block, or who simply wants to write more often!Side Note: recently heard a speaker at a conference on writing, and HE also recommended this book.
I love reading books on writing and came across this Kindle one.
I think it's a good book, well worth reading.
I grew tired of a few of the stories by the end (the drug taking, the rant about not needing a degree, etc.).
The bit about getting a degree being a waste seemed ridiculous to me, especially since early on she made a point via Hemingway in say that "...if a writer knows something, even if he doesn't write it, it is present in his work." So that seems to contradict her rant about not needing and never using her degrees.
Overall this is a good book and worth reading.
This morning, I read five chapters and finished Wild Mind. I was immersed in Natalie Goldberg's writing. I love this woman. Her writing is rich and beautiful.She is really a gifted writer. Each chapter brought to life an analogy or personal reflection. I enjoyed gleaning the nuggets she shared throughout the book.I'm eager to start her first book called Writing Down The Bones.Wild Mind by Natalie Goldberg is a great book which I highly recommend to all writers on any level. There is something for everyone in this book.To read more of this review, please visit http://www.ordinaryservant.com/?p=1077
Wow! Natalie Goldberg is phenominal. This is a remarkable book. Her approach is significantly different from other books on writing and much more suited to my style of "just do it." She gets you started with topics to prime the writer's writing pump. It is amazing what you know that you don't know you know. I dare anyone who reads this book to read it and not be compelled, inspired, and stimulated to pick up a pen and write like crazy.
Natalie Goldberg's Writing Down the Bones and Wild Mind. The first was given to me around 2000 as I tried to infuse my academic prose with life. This book gave me the freedom to scribble outside the lines. Don't doubt, just trust yourself and go, she seems to say. I bought Wild Mind shortly afterward, and off I went.Read Literary Mama's full review here: http://www.literarymama.com/reviews/a...
A good read. I will come back to it when I have writer's block or feel like I need to explore things that I haven't. I especially enjoyed it given that I'm from New Mexico, where the author resides. It's a little bit odd, of course, but I suppose you wouldn't pick up a book called Wild Mind expecting it to be tame.
Five years of HE has given me both a horror of writing and an appreciation of its necessity. I'm reading this in an attempt to get over the horror. Natalie G is ever-so-slightly *woo*, but in a good, proper zen way rather than a bullshit way. She writes beautifully. And she inspires me to get on with writing like no-one else.
I found that this book gave me great creative sparks. At the time my engine wasn't really turning over but I think it could be a good read when you're stuck.
I have read and reread this book 4 times since buying it in July. What I learned was how fine tune my writing practice everyday and find time to write through out the day!
I need to read Natalie Goldberg several times a year. She helps me tap into why I write and that it's ok to be a little crazy.
I read parts of these two books to my English classes as starters for ten-minute journal-writing times.
Nice book about writing, short essays, inspirational. Not my favorite writing book, but had some moments.
A friend suggested I read a book called “Wild Mind” by Natalie Goldberg.
I found out that the book was about ‘living the writer’s life” and included tips and practice techniques for writing.
As I began reading this book, I quickly found sentences and passages that inspired me.
Natalie details bits and pieces of her life, her past, her discovery of writing, and her journey through her first novel.
My copy has learned what it means to feel.I’m not sure this book inspired me to write.
It may not have inspired me to write, but it did reiterate my love for literature and the written word.
I'm glad I did because there is a lot of very good advice in it, such as to slow down and notice things we don't usually notice, to write regularly and no matter what, to learn to differentiate between procrastination and productive waiting, to remember that our writing isn't who we are and to live a life outside of it too and Ms. Goldberg's personal motto of "Shut up and write".
This book isn't only about writing, a lot of the things covered in it are about life and the challenges a writer, and any other person, faces every day.
Goldberg's tone is a bit less pretentious and her advice, overall, feels more grounded and less self-involved.
The book is full of analogies to the writing life to make it seem a little less mystical, and it includes a healthy dose of author humility.
I felt that Goldberg included far more examples of her own writing than were needed to convey the sense of what she was advising; these felt self-indulgent.
Goldberg does address this in several places, but there's a sense that she doesn't feel it down in her bones when she writes about quitting her one-day-a-week paid gig because it interferes with her writing mojo.
I was hoping that it would help me figure out what was blocking me from writing my story, and while to begin with it didn't seem as though I was getting much from it, by the time I reached the ending I was pleasantly surprised.This is a meandering book, with the stories shared not being told in chronological order, nor do they always seem to have a clear point.
When I write it full, when I infuse it with the details that make the characters and world come to life, those quirky things that are vital to the who and the where.
While the first half, or first two-thirds, of this book are filled with mostly common sense (some interesting motivational moments tossed in here and there), the last third of the book was actually page-turningly intriguing to me.
I think overall it's a great read for a writer -- inspiring, motivational, at times insightful.
There isn't much structure to the book, not even within chapters.
Somtimes it seems thoughts fly in from nowhere.
But I think that's the point.
The non-structure mirrors the theme Goldberg is promoting -- hand on paper and just write.
Open that place inside of you where words and thoughts flow, simply by writing.
And if you'd read Wild Mind, you'd know that Natalie Goldberg would hate that sentence.
It's difficult to review non-fiction compared to fiction because in general, it's tailored to a certain type of person, and if you're not interested in writing then it probably is going to be quite dull to you.
And, fittingly, Goldberg does this herself in the book.
After reading it I felt like I'd got to know someone as well as gaining helpful advice on both writing and life.
If you're not interesting in writing then there probably isn't much for you to get from this, however if you are, I can promise that you will gain something from Wild Mind.9/10
If you're looking for more of Natalie Goldberg's wisdom after reading Writing Down the Bones, then by all means follow up with Wild Mind. In Wild Mind Natalie offers writing prompts as a way to help you get through your writing practice. This is another one of Natalie's books that I reread every few years to help me find my writing center.
