https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1205297.Playing_for_Pizza
I started reading John Grisham books when I was the nerdiest sixth grader of all time and thought I'd grow up to be a lawyer.
At times, Grisham delves into such unbelievable detail in entirely extraneous descriptions of Italian food, culture and landmarks that it really seems as though this book's existence may have been the author's calculated ploy to tour Italy on his publisher's dime.
But like many of Grisham's books, Playing for Pizza was hard to put down.
And while there were certainly witty aspects and interesting elements of the plot, Playing for Pizza stands as one of the worst books I've ever completed.
I liked this story more than a little.
I'm no big sports fan, but I enjoyed hearing about the physical aspects of football as described in this book.
I'm also a big food nut, and liked how that was the second focus of this book.
There was plenty of good humor.
So, if you want a happy feel good book that doesn't strain the brain but makes you wince when the character strains something else.
This title should be on your gameplan.Oh, I also listened to this in the car, and when I did dishes rather than read it.
I'm multi-tasking.
This is another gem from Grisham in which he gives us a glimpse of his tale-spinning away from the courtroom dramas.
This time he whisks us away to Italy.
The vivid descriptions of ingredients, foods, and full course meals will make you hungry - reminded me of reading Part 1 of Eat, Pray, Love.
This book is a real treat if you enjoy international travel and are a football (NFL that is!) fan.
But even if you aren't into quarterbacks you can easily skim the sporty paragraphs and still have a lot of fun feeling like you are jaunting around Italy along with the main character.
A die-hard fan will read anything written by a favorite author, and I am that for John Grisham.
The premise of Playing for Pizza leaves no doubt that his entire point in writing this slim novel is to continue sharing that love affair with his readers.
I did not care for the main character, never seeing redemption in him, and I’ve always felt this was a tenet of Grisham’s novels, so Pizza was sorely lacking in many, many ways.
But Playing for Pizza is a true summer novel, slim in size and breezy in content, and I was ready for such a break in my reading.
An entertaining, quick read that will hasten your desire to see Italy. This is a departure from a typical Grisham novel, but it's a refreshing sports story with a romantic twist that will probably be made into a movie someday. Enjoy!
A good rule to live by is that any book that has detailed descriptions of Italian meals is worth reading.
It tells the story of Rick Dockery, a journeyman third string quarterback in the NFL, who after a disastorous game in which he was the goat, can only find work on a semi-pro football team in Parma, Italy.
Somewhat predictably, he rediscovers his love of the game, is welcomed by his gregarious teamates, and discovers the joys of Italy as an antidote to his many years of bouncing from apartment to apartment in city after city.What I really enjoyed about this book, other than the descriptions of meals, is that Grisham wasn't too ambitious.
a departure from Grishams usual, nevertheless i loved this book. the writing seemed so effortless and the characters are enjoyable.
I eagerly assumed the role of tourist in this charming tucked-away city, sampled wonderful local wines, consumed mouth-watering pastas and cheeses and came to appreciate the hospitable charm of the warm, colorful people reserved only for the fortunate few.
Again, he was pink-slipped.Understandably, no team in the NFL wanted anything to do with him.
Hopelessly, his agent searched high and low and somehow found a team tucked away in Italy that was in need of a quarterback.
For the first time since his old College days, he was placed as the starting quarterback of the Parma Panthers.
Turned out, they were a good match.The team had desperately wanted to win their first Italian Super Bowl.
Rick or "Reek" as he is called in Italy, is the laughing stock of the NFL and reluctantly takes the only job he can get as a quarterback for the Parma Panthers for a very low salary, a room and, a car to use.He is a fish out of water, but treated like a God. Food, food, food.....you won't believe the food.
I really enjoyed the small community and how Reek was pulled in.
You should enjoy it too.If you like football and Italy this book is perfect.
If not, you'll still probably like it, but there is some light football talk.
Basically it's sort of a simplified diary of Rick's life in Italy, or, more like an account of what did he eat, where did he eat, what did he drink, where did he drink, what cafe, bar, trattoria or restaurant he visited, what landmarks did he see, and, occasionally, how did turn out a football match he played in.
(Yes, that's actually sexist and chauvinist and perfectly legit for the last three+ hours - welcome to Orange World!) As I said, it's a quick read and most certainly not the most intellectual book you've ever seen, but it's quite good and odds-on you'll enjoy it, especially if you read it as a break from "normal" literature.
When Grisham comes away from his cookie cutter legal works he shows an interesting skill as a storyteller. This is a fun and at times funny look at a has been NFL quarterback who chases his football dream to Italy. A fun and at times funny tale well told. Light and quick like much of his non-legal work but far more entertaining than the legal things he writes.
I don't even read legal thrillers, and I'm really not that into football.Logical reading choice, isn't it?But the book had a cute premise: a third-string NFL quarterback really down on his luck plays for a team in Italy.
Who even knew they played American football there?I was expecting one of those Bad News Bears type of stories, with some romantic comedy thrown in, and while I did get some of that Bad News Bears vibe, I was a little thrown off by the romantic interest.
Grisham uses the omniscient point of view in this novel, and it was a little jarring at first for me.
A Book for all Seasons topic: something edible in the titleRick is not a charming guy. And no matter what he may think, being this season’s AFC goat won’t get him a place on another football team; well, unless he wants to travel to Italy.
*3.5 starsThis is my second book of John Grisham.
The first book being The Associate, I thought Playing For 🍕 is very much in the same boat.
Reading this book, I don't feel like reading a novel.
It was more like travelogue to me.
And of course I wish I can go to Italy.
Occasionally I will watch football or they call it soccer in America.
Here in Malaysia we called it football.
To my surprise of course.
He found his life in Italy.
I want to know what his choices are.
And of course I wanted to get to know Livvy more.
As a side note, I believe this author is best known for his legal suspense thrillers, so this a change of genre for him as well.STORY BRIEF:Rick is an NFL backup quarterback who rarely plays.
His agent finds a job for him as quarterback for the Parma team in Italy.
Rick hadn’t had a serious female relationship in the past and usually found companionship with cheerleaders.
The story is about Rick’s life in Italy, the food he eats, and his relationships with the team members.
Unfortunately, the restaurants didn’t have the same food that Rick ate.
once i kept reading on i found that it got boring in the middle about the time he gets totally wasted in the bar reading that part thinking next is going to be a fist kickin fight to the duel wich sadly ends up bringing the two charchters togethrer closer then they where befor shame.!
but there is another player on the team from america the running back from college he didnt get drafted looking for a job somewhere kinda left to come to here so the next part is that he finds his love there and she becomes ricks girlfriend and all that good stuff wich i prefer not to talk about.....
Book on CD read by Christopher Evan WelchRick Dockery doesn’t know anything but football, but he’s obviously not very good at it.
In six years, he played with eight teams.
So off he goes.What’s the male equivalent of chick-lit?
Light on plot (and what’s there is predictable), a little romance, a life lesson learned (sort of), and a lot of football.
But Grisham is definitely capable of better writing that this.Evan Welch does a fairly good job of voicing the audio.
He has good pacing and I liked the way he voiced the Italians – even when I was listening ad double speed on my MP3.
This book has no point. It is a hallmark/lifetime after school special minus the I can't look away factor.
Not a clean read. I'm picky about that sort of thing.
Great beach read-which is exactly where I read it.
It's almost hard to decide where to start insulting this piece of mind-cabbage.First, I've read most of Grisham's books, and have generally enjoyed them, so this isn't a rant against an author I dislike, but against this particular book.
Americans may enjoy this as they understand American Football, and their acquaintance with Italy is likely limited to Pizza Hut, but for Europeans you'd be better reading the Tel Aviv Times (in Hebrew) to understand the rubbish about the football.
This was TV Soap Opera written down.Finally, there is an 'author note' at the end of the book.
It comments that the author 'stumbled across' NFL when in Italy.
I mean, seriously, this is John Grisham with almost three thousand reviews so who cares about my little grain of sand on an endless beach?
I started reading John Grisham when I was a sophomore in college and babysitting for my English Lit professors' kids.
Maybe those readers who criticized this one particular aspect of the novel had never been to Italy, if such is the case, then I suggest you listen to the audio version, close your eyes and let the descriptions take you away.
I loved the fact that Grisham refers to this culture and country as though it were an exquisite woman shedding her clothing and reaching out to him like an irresistible muse.
Though not quite as horrible as Skipping Christmas, Playing for Pizza is a novel that probably would not have been published, were it not for its author's famous name.I am an avid football fan, and reading this novel with yet another week to go before the 2012 football season begins (college and pro), I was able to tolerate the blow-by-blow descriptions of the football games and practices...up to a point.
If only the publishers (and John Grisham!) would forgo the "easy money" they make by hoodwinking Grisham's devoted readers!Two stars just because Skipping Christmas was even worse...this really probably only deserves one and a half.
We listened to this on an audio book from Tye. I agreed with his view that it wasn't great writing, and, for Grisham, not even an intense legal story.
Tye said Grisham probably went to his editor and offered to write a story there as an excuse to get to live in Italy for a while, and I would buy that supposition.
His story was weak but the descriptions of food were mouthwatering.
The wines.
We will be there next week savoring it all (ok, not the wines).
And the story was worth it just for the descriptions.
This is Eat, Pray, Love: For Men(TM). I legitimately respect myself less for how much I enjoyed this book. OK, self, the streak of mindless drivel books has to end here.
A gentle little story of a failed quarterback moving to the Italian version of American football - I found it quite interesting on the sports angle as someone who does not know much about that game. Possible US sports fan readers might not agree. The rest of the book is a little romance and a homage to Italy, which Grisham clearly loves. Read it one sitting.
I can't believe I'm reading this book.
Why am I reading this book?
Where did it come from?
It's such a guy book.
It's in a stack of to-reads at the side of the bed.
I need a quick read before reviewing "great Expectations" for the next book group.
I read the first page.
Why?Then my obstinate why-not comes pouncing forward.
A book about football.
I keep reading.
By the time I read to the first detailed food scene in Italy, I know I'm hooked.
I'll read to the end.Whoever heard of an Italian NFL?
But, his non-legal books have never quite held the same appeal for me (Bleachers and The Painted House, for example).
There, he encounters a team of Italians who with little financial support from the country, play for the love of the game, and of course - for pizza.
The soft spot in my heart for Grisham makes me want to find something about this book that was wonderful, so I can recommend it.
The food descriptions did make me crave a little pasta - but, for that kind of reading, I think Under the Tuscan Sun and Eat, Pray, Love do the job much better.
Long review: I’ve read, or attempted to read, many John Grisham novels since The Firm, including A Time to Kill, which I found more riveting than The Firm, if not as quickly read.
But Playing for Pizza was reminiscent of The Firm in that, like an old friend, I’d found the familiar easy prose that made me want to read The Firm in the first place.
While Playing for Pizza is not as fast paced, nor in the same genre as The Firm, it did remind me why I like John Grisham’s writing style.
I liked the book, it is very funny and if you love football you will like this book. Rick Dockery is a football player who's career is pretty much over. He's a member of the Denver Broncos, and has been on practically every NFL team. His last mistake was a third concussion during the Superbowl. His manager Arnie is trying to gey him a job on another NFL team, people are sending him death threats and hate him. Arnie finds a team in Parma, Italy that is desperate to have any Pro-Football Player no matter how bad
