https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/370769.The_Man_Who_Never_Was
The idea of "Operation Mincemeat" was born out of a long-shot idea that slowly turned into a plausible and ultimately successful con of the highest levels of the German miliary.Operation Mincemeat?
The bare bones of the idea: get a dead man and plant some papers on him that hopefully the Germans will end up having access to and be convinced of some "secret strategic plans," thus moving the German army AWAY from Sicily to somewhere else.Brilliant.
And a huge long shot.
I also appreciated how much respect Monatgu and his fellow agents had for "the man who never was," I really enjoyed learning about how they created his persona.A very interesting read.
One fine day last week I saw an entry for "Operation Mincemeat" in their "Did You Know...?" section.
I read further and discovered this book, which is the history of an unusual spy operation during World War II.
Published in 1953, it was written by the British intelligence officer who devised a cunning plan to trick the Germans into diverting their forces to Sardinia and Greece while the Allies invaded Sicily instead.
They took the bait and diverted huge forces into the wrong places, enabling the Allies to land on Sicily with fewer casualties.
Espionage thriller based on the true story of an intelligence officer who plans an elaborate hoax to fool the Nazis into thinking the Allies are about to invade Greece, not Sicily.
I saw this one at the used book store and the first few paragraphs sounded interesting.
When a book starts off with "But where could we find a body?", you know it's going to be great.This one doesn't disappoint.
Essentially, the Brits float a body ashore to Spain, knowing that the Germans will get it and, more importantly, the letters he's carrying which are rife with misdirection.
Seems like a simple plan, but it proves to be much more difficult than originally imagined.It's a fascinating book told by the very man who thought up the plot and saw it through.
True spy stuff from World War II. British intellegence got ahold of a corpse, dressed it up like an officer, and provided a ton of fake background on him (girlfriend letters, theatre ticket stubs) and floated him off the coast of Spain so the Germans would get him. The point to this was the corpse was also loaded up with fake invasion plans designed to throw off the German response to the invasion of Sicily. It worked perfectly. It was disgustingly called Operation Mincemeat. Great little read.
The cover of the edition I read says:"Astonishing" says Time"Fascinating" says Saturday Review"Diverting" says Dave. Very easy-to-read, light war story of "Operation Mincemeat." Just the right level of sophistication for the 14 year-old in all of us. Though thicker in jargon than I expected. Do you know what a "Mae West" is?
This is a great story well told by the man who lived it. Ewen Montagu's story is a classic in deciept and a must read for anyone interested in intelligence. This is a must read for anyone interested in World War II.
It was written poorly, and that's rgw major and only flaw of this book. Other than that the topic was highly simconceldedthe fact were good and it was a very good document. Not a fiction stuff
Mincemeat swallowed whole The Man Who Never Was is the book chronicling one of the most successful deception plans of World War II.
We learn of the exacting detail involved in such an operation and that even with precise and meticulous planning and execution an element of luck is needed for total success.
I would encourage you to watch the movie of the same title, starring Clifton Webb.
Elements of the book crop into the movie but parts of it are fictional as far as can be determined.
The focus of the movie from the German side was the genuineness of the man.
I had heard about this bit of espionage from WWII, back when I was growing up, and heard or read about it on a few occasions since then, but never knew the whole story.
So it was interesting to read the whole story, by one of the men principally responsible for pulling it off.
There's no suspense, of course, since you know how it ends, but it was interesting to read all the details of how they prepared the body, prepared the documents he would carry, not just the ones with the (false) military intelligence but also those that made the man seem genuine.
In April 1943 the body of a fallen soldier was given a new identity, provided with letters revealing a planned attack by the allies, and made to wash ashore in Spain.
The purpose was to make the Germans think that the Allies planned to ignore Sicily and engage a two-pronged attack elsewhere.
The Germans diverted troops and submarines to protect Greece and Sardinia leaving only a few troops on the northwestern coast of Sicily.
Allied troops landed on the southern coast of Sicily which was unprotected.
The "man who never was" had redirected the German army away from the Allied invasion.This has to be one of the best spy operations ever.
This is the firsthand account of one of the masterminds behind one of the most ingenious, gruesome, FANTASTIC acts of espionage ever.
Ben Macintyre has also written on this (Operation Mincemeat), and lots of people have talked about the operation over the years (if you haven't heard of it, seriously, LOOK IT UP), but to read about it from one of the men who worked on the project is spectacular.
It's also fascinating to look at the information he was allowed to divulge only a decade after the operation knowing that other bits have come to light in recent years.
I decided to read this after reading "Operation Mincemeat". The Man Who never Was is the original telling of this WWII operation to deceive the Germans about the invasion of southern Europe. Although the first book was longer and contained more details I think I liked this one better. something about the simplicity and lack of drama seemed to fit the British reputation for understatement.
Entertaining account of one of the more novel pieces of British espionage during World War Two, written by one of the men who masterminded it: the government arranged for a corpse to wash up on the Spanish shore, loaded with documents which suggested the Allies were going to strike in force in Greece, rather than Italy. They managed to completely hoodwink the Nazis and saved many Allied lives.
After reading Ben Macintyre's book "Operation Mincemeat" it was interesting to read these two versions back to back. The fictional story with a seed of truth at the end which caused the second to be rushed out to stop rumours from twisting the truth in a damaging way and exposing agents that were still at work after WWII.
This was a quick read - the copy I read was only 176 pages and the paper was thick! A very interesting intelligence program idea used during World War II, by the British.I found this book in the high school library where I work.
The last time I read this book was over 60 years ago while in in high school... I totally enjoyed reading it again. If you are looking for a true story about WWII and how the Germans were duped regarding the Allied landings on Sicily, you will enjoy this book.
An interesting book that gives insight to a very daring operation. A textbook intelligence operation that should be read and lectured.
Really informative and very interesting. It’s a very quick read and a great insight into the strategic mind of the Allies.
What an interesting story! I can't imagine anyone now a days having the patience and diligence to pull off such a perfect ruse. This is a great easy read for anyone.
Probably the most successful act of deception involved the planting of information on a dead body whose identity was a fictional creation of a small group of men.-There were so many decisions that had to be made for the general plan and it was a miracle that everything came about as it did.
This is a non-fiction book.
A memoir about Operation Mincemeat written by Ewen Montagu, an intelligence officer in command of the Operation.
In order to have German intelligence swallow this fallacious information, Bontagu used a body and created the man who did not exist.
The body was disguised in a naval officer and given new identity and detailed personal history.
The body also had other miscellaneous items such as a faked personal letter from his fiancé to enhance credibility of the information.I was amazed by the idea of using a body to create a man who never existed itself its actual implementation.
I quite enjoyed reading this book.
True story from WWII of the British intelligence officers who created and executed a plan to have a dead body wash up on the Spanish shore, be found by the Germans, and give them (false) information about the Allies' next move, which successfully drew the Germans away from the Allies' actual target.Read this at Travis's recommendation and it was really interesting.
It's a quick 160 page read and an interesting glimpse into a tiny piece of WWII I knew nothing about.
It is the true story of an English espionage plan that foiled the Nazis during WWII.
In the lead up to the allied invasion from the south the English came up with a plan to deceive the Nazis into believing it would be from a different point, thereby encouragin them to deploy troops away from the real site.
The created a false identity to a corpse and planted him so that he would wash up on the Spanish coast.
To reinforce the validity of his identity they invented a whole persona for the man, including letters from his father and his 'fiancee.' Amazing story and very entertaining, especially since it was a true story.
Subject & Content - This book superbly describes the operation and all the problems involved through the course of planning and execution.
Every detail along with photos and letters is made interesting and readable.
It also explains the big picture of the WW2 and why this small operation is so crucial to the Mediterranean War during the WW2.
Also, it is from the man himself who planned the operation so it is a very good first hand narration of the affair.A recommended book for all those who are interested in the history of WW2 and how a small but precisely planned operation is executed in the war time.Writing - The print edition that I read had a lot of printing mistakes and really wants a look by the publishers and editors.
A good recounting of the operation to deceive the Germans about the invasion of Sicily.
I was expecting a little more of the story, perhaps some dramatization of the events or dialog from those involved.
It was a good illustration of how effective the efforts of a small intelligence team can be towards saving lives in war, but there were a lot of unanswered questions.
How big was the team?
Who else was involved?
What did he do after the war?I recommend it, but don't look for drama or suspense; you will only find a factual recounting, almost like a military after-action review.
A detailed account from the idea all the way to finding German military records after the war, of the German response and reaction.
The English came up with a plan to give false information about the invasion of Southern Europe, to reduce Axis forces at the obvious invasion point through Sicily and Italy.
They also had to think like the Germans, they had to anticipate what the Germans would question, not what an Englishman or American would question.
Montagu gives all the details, without boring you like a textbook.
I read this in junior high school and was fascinated by the whole idea and execution.
Brilliant story, told well and with many useful illustrations.
It is the story of how the British found a corpse, added false identification and false information for the Nazi's to find and believe, which they did.
It made them change battle plans and allowed the Allies to carry out operations with less interference from the Germans and Italians than otherwise.
I read it several times and it inspired me to become involved in anthropology.
Maybe old-fashioned, but it is history and not fiction - it is better than fiction.
Quite an amazing account of a British intelligence mission and how a corpse helped them fool Hitler himself and take Sicily.
Most amazing was the patience, stamina, and determination needed to accomplish such a mission, and the fact that nobody could know about it, not even when it was successfully completed.
Realistic view of the necessarily unacknowledged and thankless—and, often, solitary—job of the fine military servicemen, as well as the lengths they go to physically and mentally to ensure safety and success for their country.Montagu is the man who was in charge of the mission, and offers a very factual account.
I'm still amazed at the duties these men performed.
Waiting for it to get to the Montagu adventure,which will give the book more narrative thrust.
Interested in this subject, as I've just put my own WWII thriller up on Amazon -which features Judy Garland as an OSS operative behind German lines in 1943.
I knew Judy, so I'm able to capture her nuances accurately -and it's been great fun sending her on this fictional adventure to bring back a photo of a Nazi physicist who's working on a nuclear-powered battery for Hitler's U-Boats.
Try a sample on Amazon -let me know what you think.
