https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99315.A_Whole_New_Mind
Daniel Pink takes a bunch of self-evident ideas, hammers them togethers with some feel-good rationale, and writes a pampered, whiny how-to of middle class comfort telling us to use our right brains to stay competitive and maintain our middle class relevance.His examples are trite and his sources appalling--looking at the selections at your local suburban Target is not the way of justifying your belief in a culture of abundance, you self-important ass.Since he takes forever to get to it, I'll sum up Pink's points quickly.
We have three new, scary frontiers: Abundance, Automation, and--I kid you not--Asia.
ASIA!!!
ASIA!!!
Jeez.Honestly, this one of the most vacuous, self-absorbed things I've ever been forced to read.
And I've read four Dickens novels against my will.
In his book, A Whole New Mind, Pink tells of a shift from the “left-brain” thinking of the “Information Age”, to a future that belongs to those of us with a very different kind of mind: creators and empathizers, pattern recognizers, and meaning makers, artists, inventors, designers, storytellers, caregivers, consolers, and big picture thinkers.
Art, entertainment and mobile sculpture, which, coincidentally, also happens to provide transportation.” Pink outlines what he asserts are the six essential aptitudes – “the six senses” – which will guide our lives, shape our world, and on which professional success and personal satisfaction will increasingly depend: 1.
A very popular business book--at least it was ten years ago--claiming that because of abundance, Asia and automation, right-brained abilities are now becoming even more valuable in the workplace than left-brained skills.
He presents right-brained abilities in categories, and offers exercises to help develop such skills.
Disregarding the fact that neurobiologists now believe these skills have little to do with a particular hemisphere, I agree with the thesis of this book, and thought that the presentation was clear and persuasive.
And why do we--barring the well-publicized exceptions--routinely pay the "right-brained" cultural creatives far less than the "left-brained" executives who sap their spontaneity and mismanage this skills?
كتاب جميل بحق ، من يقرأه يشعر أنه يعيش العصر يعيش اللحظة . ينقلك الكتاب الى محطات ست ..بعد أن يذكرأهميتها ومدى صِدق جمالها ، يتحدث عن مهارة التعاطف و المعنى و السيمفونيةو التصميم و القصة ..بعيدًا كليًا عن مقالات العلوم التطبيقة ،و قريبً جدًا من الروحانية المُفتَقدة في عصرنا ..هو باختصار يحكيأن من ستكون له السطوة في العصر القادم سيكون إنساًنًا بحق .كتاب اتمنى أن يعفني الوقت لأعيد قراءته مرة و أخرى .
He emphasizes (again and again) that “left-brained” and “right-brained” are “powerful metaphor[s] for how individuals and organizations navigate their lives.” That’s all well and good, but in the rest of the book the “left-brained” functions or “L-Directed thinking” end up left in the dust.
If the title can’t get it’s story straight, I don’t have much faith in the entire book.Chapter 2: Abundance, Asia, and AutomationI suppose alliteration is an R-Directed thing.
You are probably doing something much too ‘left-brained’ and you need to start doing something more ‘right-brained’.
This guy really does like to categorise ideas – he has six main categories in this one that you need to be good at if you are going to make it in the new world order: Design, Story, Symphony, Empathy, Play and Meaning.
One is called How to Read Superhero Comics and Why – which sounds fascinating – and the other is called Story – which I’m hoping to start soon.Overall, though, this was disappointing.
خاض معي هذا الكتاب رحلتان وبقية واحدة ..
أما الرحلة الأولى فهي تجربة "قراءة ربع ساعة في اليوم" حيث قرأت الكتاب في ١٩ يومًا بمقدار ربع ساعة يوميًّا ..
وجدت هذه الطريقة أقرب للفائدة وتثبيت الفكرة.
أما الرحلة الثانية فهي رحلتي الخاصة في فهم ذاتي التي رسم نواتها لي الدكتور علي أبو الحسن وأوصاني بهذا الكتاب كجزء منها، لحاجتي لتفعيل الجانب الأيمن من دماغي.أما المرحلة الثالثة (التي أخوضها حاليًّا) فهي التمارين والكتب التي اقترحها المؤلف في كل فصل.أنقصت نجمةً في تقييمي للكتاب بسبب ضعف الترجمة أحيانًا (طبعة جرير) مع أن غالب الأفكار وصلتني دون صعوبة.
كذلك لأنّي وجدت الكثير من القصص التي نسيتها سرعان ما انتهيت من قراءة الكتاب.ختامًا أشكر أخي محمد آل شماخ على إهدائه هذا الكتاب الرائع وأخي حمزة جاد كريم على اقتراحه لي.
هذا الكتاب جعلني أرقص طرباً لن أزيد عن ذلك !
Well written and easy to read, with little to disagree with, but nevertheless a book I find difficult to rate at more than 2 stars.I enjoyed the first 60 or so pages which introduce Pink's argument that we need to make better use of our right-brain characteristics and move away from our over-reliance on left-brain thinking.
My first criticism may be unfair, as this book was written over a decade ago and this idea may have been interesting or novel then.
The majority of the book then describes six right brain characteristics which Pink claims we need to adopt to re-balance towards our right brain's characteristics.
This book was better than what reviewers and critics were saying about it.Daniel makes it completely clear that to survive in the conceptual age, we need to harness the power of our right brained cognitive abilities.
Left brained dominant people would just have to simply go through more obstacles to survive and thrive in the conceptual age.
Daniel had showed that it would be right-brained people who would have a better chance of overcoming the obstacles the conceptual age has to offer, having advantages over growing-obsolete left-brained dominant people.
Pink's proposal is a touch idealistic, but the vision he paints is promising.
As a teacher, I really like Pink's ideas and can use them to better influence the ways (and even what) I teach.
But I think it'll be a while before the world shifts the way he suggests.It's a quick read, however, as Pink's style takes complex psychological and scientific proposals and makes them palatable and easy to understand.
کسی شبیه به دهقان فداکار، داستان ازین قرار است که، زمانی که برای اولین بار ماشین های معدن به کار گرفته می شوند معدنچی ها اعتراض میکنند ...
اما جان هنری به خاطر صرف نیروی زیاد فوت می کند.داستان دومهم سن و سال های من به خاطر دارند زمانی قهرمان شطرنج کاسپاروف هر از گاهی با برنامه های رایانه ای شطرنج مسابقه می داد.
( مشابه داستان اول) زمانی که «برنامه نویسان هندی با هزینه های بسیار پایین، پروژه های شرکت های بزرگ رایانه ای آمریکا را انجام می دهند و کاری برای برنامه نویسان چپ مغز آمریکایی باقی نمی ماند.
His advice on what sorts of traits will be necessary seem obvious to me--they boil down to play nice with others, make connections between people and ideas, and have fun--but he did lose me at the end where he advocates for spiritual enlightenment and the search for meaning as a surefire tactic to get ahead in this new, conceptual age.
Even after we're out of the early section on Why We're In This Mess, the text is peppered with lines like "before the Indian programmers have something to fabricate, maintain, test, or upgrade, that something first must be imagined or invented" and "But the sort of emotionally intelligent care [nurses] often provide is precisely the sort of thing that's impossible to outsource or automate.
Does she think I'm too creative?
It posits a movement from an era when “Left-Brained” Knowledge Work was at a premium to one in which “Right-Brained High-Concept and High Touch” Work will be the demand opportunity.
What’s not is making sense of knowledge in new contexts and connecting with people.
To correct that Pink suggests that we focus on six senses of high-concept, high touch: Design, Story, Symphony, Empathy, Play, and Meaning.
The only false note in the book is in his section on Meaning where he praises spirituality but then qualifies it by saying anyone who refuses medical treatment for prayer deserves what follows.
كل ما احلف بالله إني مش هقرا تنمية بشرية ألاقي صديق أو صديقة يرشحولي كتاب ويلحوا إني أقراهربنا يخليهم طبعًا هما عاوزني أغير رأيي لكن دة المرة الخمسين وفي كل مرة رأيي يتأكدالكتاب ليس إلا هراء... منكرش إنه ملهم في بعض الأحيان لكن إلهام مؤقتالشخص لو من نفسه معندوش الحافز لتغيير نفسه يبقى ولا ألف كتاب يقدروا يغيروه او الف سيرة ذاتيةالكتاب جيت عند صفحة مية ومكملتوش ومقدرتشواللي عاوزه يقولي
كتاب يأخذ بيدك من عالم الآلة إلى ما وراءها، وليس إلى ما قبلها من معنى، يعرف أن من سيستمر هو ذلك الذي يدمج بين اللعب والعمل ولا يقتصر على واحد منهم، ويهتم بالروح والمادة ولا يضخم أحدهما فقط، أحببته وأثار عندي سؤال ماذا لو كنت أعيش في دولة غير ريعية ماهي المهارات التي يمكنني أن أبدأ بها من الصفر لو وضعت في مكان غير الذي أنا فيه، هل يمكنني تقديم شيء للعالم يتجاوز صبغتي الجيوبولتيكية ولا تعوضه الآلة؟الغلاف العربي قبيح ويضع الكتاب إلى جوار تلك السوقية ، أمر حزين يا جرير.
My book club really loved it--all of us.Pink (yes, that's his name) outlines his vision for the next generation of world business trends in our "flat" world where automation, asia, and abundance have created new requirements for success--requirements that for the most part come out of the right brain.
It is from their midst that I believe we will draw tomorrow's new business leaders."________________This is the "Responsible Women" book choice for the month.
Technically, I suppose it would be categorized as a business book, but it's very right-brained (of course), with a respectful nod to the left-brain also.
i first this book with interest, but then had to skim through the last 50 pages or so to finish it. Sorry Mr. Pink. The stories were fun to read, the numbers and data were interesting.. but couldn't buy your prophecy and share u your "pinkish" view of the future.I believe our world is already run by a few R-Directed minds.. crazy ones indeed. One more thing, maybe i'm just paranoid here, but in a way i felt that this book is directed to the westerners, while the low-waged asians are somehow objectified.
When I was reading this book, I realized though it is sometimes hard, it is easy to do things that require logic and certainty, because there is no room for doubt and gray areas.
I wonder if other people also sometimes feel uncomfortable diving into the right-brain's realm.I like the suggestions in each chapter given by the author; I think some of them are very creative.
There is a very detailed list of things you can do to improve the use of your right brain in this book.
I doubt these are the only things to improve the use of right-brain, but I feel like the given suggestions can be a good start.
That is, until you realize that Pink's assertion that "right-brainers will rule the future" isn't really substantiated in this book.
Pink begins the book with the assertion that the outsourcing of jobs to developing countries is an inevitable symptom of globalization that we simply need to get used to.
This is where the "right-brained" premise of the book collides with the more practical problems of implementing such jobs: for instance, Pink predicts the (wholly predictable) increase in need for nurses (purveyors of empathetic, "care work") as the Baby Boomers age, but is altogether unconcerned about how spiraling costs in health care could impede this progress.
I'm writing a review for the first 60%.
It has been a while since my psychology classes and I enjoyed the brain review.
However, it degrades into a cheerleading book without much support.
I lost interest at the point where he talks about the CEO who hires poets instead of MBA holders.
Are there any studies comparing the success rate of Team Poet vs.
Team MBA?
Any reviews by the employees who work for each?
As I've said in other reviews, this hackneyed theme of worthless, overpaid American engineers may play into people's fears and sell books, but it's only a short-term phenomenon at best.
While I'm sympathetic to the opinion that folks with creativity provide valuable services and will continue to be in demand, anybody with half a left brain can see that most of the arguments advanced herein are faulty or poorly supported. Most of the evidence offered is anecdotal. When the author does us the (occasional) service of providing a reference, it is usually a weak source, a secondary source, or a source completely unrelated to the fact/quote stated. There may be a decent idea in here, but it was inadequately executed.
This book has so many ideas for live your life much better.
Really loved this book. I found so many actionable items to push my own thinking further, in new directions. I even plan to develop a scrapbooking class around the information I learned.
Maybe it's just me, but I'm getting a little tired of non-educators talking about "what's wrong with our schools." Again, if you're an educator, this might be useful, but how many of us are?By part two, I was solidly feeling that I didn't like this book, and I tried to figure out why.
His advice struck me a lot like the advice in the book (which he lauds) DRAWING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE BRAIN, which was inflicted on me when I was an art student in high school.
Eye opener!
Beautiful read.
It is meant for people in developed countries who are losing job due to young engineers from India, China, Taiwan etc.
So this book suggests how to ensure they chose right kind of job so that they still have the upper hand.
Like in art, design, architecture etc which are more right brain intensive activities.
The philosophy is that anything that is logical can be learnt or automated but not creativity.
Hence every engineer, later or to some extent doctor will lose job because it can be done by a computer or robot but not art.
Pink is a text which examines why right brainers or people with more creative and artistic abilities are going to rule the future.
His argument is that due to Abundace, Asia and Automation, Left-Brained people or people with technical abilities are going to loose their edge in the job market.
The book definitely raises an interesting point of view and a lot of the things which are mentioned are relevant.
My issue with the book are the following(a) The book reads like, Daniel Pink woke up one day in the morning and decided Left-Brains are not good enough.
Đại khái là nó được bao trọn trong sáu từ khóa liên quan đến công việc của não phải: Thiết kế, Kể chuyên, Hòa hợp, Đồng cảm, Giản trí, Ý nghĩa.
Ngày càng nhiều bằng chứng cho thấy Thiết kế trở nên quan trọng trong tất cả các lĩnh vực.Design đang thay đổi thế giới.
Trong khi những chiếc máy tính đã có thể làm tốt nhiều việc chi tiết (phân tích), nó vẫn không thể nhìn ra được những hòa điệu của tự nhiên.
Túm lại: Thời đại ý niệm, 6 giác quan: Thiết kế, Kể chuyện, Hòa hợp, Đồng cảm, Giải trí, Ý nghĩa.
For the first time in my life, I felt like someone was actually saying not only do I have skills, but they are important.
In fact, one teacher, who I will call Mr. Bologna MaHohney, told me I would end up on the street if I didn't learn to color inside the lines.
Professions that require repetitive tasks are those most likely to a) be outsourced or b) be replaced by a computerized program.
In other words, a machine can color inside the lines, but can't think outside of the box.According to Daniel Pink, the working world has gotten a whole lot more colorful - and companies are looking for those who know how to create outside the lines.
The author's key message is that the Right-brain traits and capabilities will be ever more important to succeed in this age of information, what he calls the Conceptual Age. He is not diminishing the importance of L brain traits which have landed us where we are today, but they need to be supplemented.The book is divided into two parts.
The first part starts out with a differentiation of R vs L characteristics, activities and how three key factors -- abundance, Asia and automation, have necessitated the need for knowledge workers to differentiate themselves through 'High concept and High touch'.
High concept involves the ability to create artistic and emotional beauty, to detect patterns and opportunities, to tell a compelling story etc.
