https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226858.What_We_Keep
The statements are located a bit beyond the midpoint of the novel -- appropriately, as they are at the core of Berg's work, a work not so much about what we keep as about what we lose.
If a reader doesn't already know these "truths," the lives of Berg's main characters should be instructive.
Readers not needing instruction may still find Berg's characters interesting, easy to identify with, and easy to care about -- hence easy to keep in their memory warehouses.In arguing that Berg's novel prompts us to feel what's lost, am I suggesting that the title should have been "What We Lose"?
2.5 starsThis was a quick, easy read. I was enjoying the book most of the way through, with some minor issues (mainly I didn't really have a feel for the 1958 time period and had to keep reminding myself that it was taking place then and not more modern), but it lost me at the end. After the build-up of the story, 35 years without communication, everything tied up very quickly, with very little emotion, in a way that left me thinking "lazy writing".
At 47, as she prepares for a reunion with her mother after 35 years apart, Ginny Moore remembers the summer she turned twelve and her world shattered. Told in a most authentic voice, Berg depicts childhood in the '50s, characters we care about, and the complexity of family dynamics, but mostly it's a book about healing through forgiveness. A great summer read!
i was disappointed by the book - the story is compelling, but the author was a nasty little habit of nicely showing, then laboriously  telling what the reader already understands quite nicely. It is as thought she doesn't trust the reader - or herself - to manage without an excess of words.
Just this line: we base our feelings about people and happenings solely on our observations, or what we perceive as our observations...and we often tend to forget that there are two sides to every story!Enjoy!I picked up a new book at the Munich airport and am in the process of reading it now...but I would imagine I may have it finished before returning home to La Center, WA.
It's entitled: The Little Book by Selden Edwards...and so far is quite delightful!
Again, in this novel, she makes me care deeply about the character and empathize and hurt and laugh with the character.
In this case, the narrative is largely seen through the eyes of a 12 year old whose world is falling apart.
Berg captures the essence of what it means to be 12, and her writing was intelligent, but she was thinking like a 12 year old.The only issue I had, was that I felt that the book was wrapped up in a neat package far to quickly.
35 years of hurt and pain requires more than a short chapter to bring closure.
A daughter, Ginny traveling to see her mother, whom she had not seen for thirty five years. She spent time on the airplane remembering her childhood with her mother, father and sister Sharla and when their family fell apart.Sharla and Ginny were now Mother’s with their own children, when their mother asked them to come and see her. She had told she was ill.Their mothers life for the last thirty five years were a surprise to both daughters.There was forgiveness and healing.A very touching story.
What I liked about the novel was mostly due to the surprise at the ending being the opposite of what I thought it would be.
I felt sad when the mother described her wedding rings as being like a baby she put down because she was exhausted, but the baby reaches up for you, and you feel guilty.
LOLAs a daughter who did watch her mom leave her family, I had mixed emotional reactions to moments in this novel.
My favorite passage comes near the end of the book,as the grown daughter is returning home from the visit:  "I am thinking about the way that life can be so slippery; the way that a twelve-year-old girl looking into the mirror to count freckles reaches out toward herself and her reflection has turned into that of a woman on her wedding day, righting her veil.
And how after that young woman bends down to retrieve the wild-haired doll her daughter has left on the bathroom floor, she rises up a forty-seven-year-old; looking in the mirror to count age spots."

Ginny and Sharla Young were young teenagers growing up in the 1950's when their mother makes a choice that will change their lives forever. 35 years later they are flying to meet each other and their mother, and as the book moves back and forth in time between the girls they were and the women they have become, they learn surprising truths about the choices and tough decisions that occur in many women's lives . A good story about misunderstandings, forgiveness, and the fact that sometimes you have to become a mother to more fully understand your own.
Another good story from Elizabeth Berg. I liked this one almost enough to give it 5 stars but not quite. I really have to save my 5 star reviews for the "WOW" books. This one almost made it there. I loved the characters. I don't usually like stories that bounce back and forth over time but it didn't bother me in this one. A great story about relationships and growing up.
I have enjoyed everything I've read by Elizabeth Berg.She has "emotional honesty and a true understanding ofpeople and relationships." She writes of complexfamily relationships and the 35-year estrangement twosisters have from their mother. Elizabeth Berg is areason I find reading fiction adds a level of humanityand understanding (every bit helps) to my life.
I love Elizabeth Berg's writing and this book about mothers and daughters really resonated with me. Beautiful.
As she flies in the air she reconstructs the story of her childhood and the events that split her fractured family apart as seen from her child's perspective.
I think something I really liked was the voice the author used-her fresh perspective of a child was humorous and touching all at the same time.
I also really liked the way the sister relationship was portrayed in the novel, growing up with 5 sisters, I could definitely relate to the level of closeness the two girls shared and also the competitive jealously that sometimes emerges as well.
This was my first Elizabeth Berg novel, and if it is indicative of her writing, I will be back for more.
The story was compelling and had a twist to the end - even though I had guessed it earlier in the novel.
I will say, I felt the mother's departure was a bit abrupt; Berg could have spent a bit more time building up scenes depicting her discontent.
We saw nothing but the 12-year old's view of a happy family up until that point.
And I am a sucker for happy endings.
I LOVED the first 2/3 or so of this book as told through the eyes of a 12 year-old girl, but unfortunately the story got weaker at the end.One quote I could really relate to at this stage of life: "I am thinking about the way that life can be so slippery; the way that a twelve-year-old girl looking into the mirror to count freckles reaches out toward herself and her reflection has turned into that of a woman on her wedding day, righting her veil.
This book has a good story line. It is a book about estranged family relationships. I especially liked the way the story is narrated from current day and traveling back to the way the author remembers events in childhood only to reveal at the end an adult version of what actually happened. This happens in life more often than not when we are angry with someone or don't see the pictured painted from all sides and when the paint dries the story is skewed and not what we thought. Very thought provoking. Would recommend this book.
What We Keep chronicles a summer in the 1950’s during which a family fell apart – and the reunion of the mother and daughters in the present day. This is not my favorite Berg novel by a long shot. Now, we could contribute this to the fact that I have my own #mommyissues. But we could also say that Berg’s trademark attention to the beauty of every detail and to the atmosphere itself is simply not as present as it is in other novels. It’s OK, though, Elizabeth – I still love you!!
This is my favorite book! For some reason I love stories that are told thru the eyes of a child like this one partly is. I think Elizabeth Berg is one of the best authors out there today and have been rarely disappointed by her books. This is a great story of family and the relationships between sisters and mothers and daughters.
I think Berg is a great writer. I was able to grasp the intensity of each characters feelings in a very simple way. A great read about forgiveness and family relations. I loved reading the story through a 12 year olds eyes. sometimes things are not what they seem because of young perspectives. It is a fast read that keeps you captive the entire time.
A great book about family and the things we remember or chose to forget! Loved it!
Another good book by Berg.
a very good read. fiction, but it really does a good job of exploring mother-daughter issues and sister-sister relationships.
I read this book sometime in the summer of 1998. It's one I never did forget. It's hard to forget a book that starts off with, "Well, I've broken the toilet." I want to read this again. I see there are now 3 books in this "series".
"I loved all aspects of science, in fact - everything I read having to do with that most elegant of subjects thrilled me, though usually I did not understand what I read.
On the negative side, you often had the feeling that something dark and uneasy was going on with my mother; but she would not acknowledge it, nor allow anyone else to" (53)."Rather it occurs to me that I did not pursue any profession having to do with psychology because if I understood more about how people work, how they are, I might understand my mother.
And I did not want to understand my mother.
I have to admit I found it a little disturbing--both as a daughter of divorced parents and as a mother.
I have to get stronger in all this, I need to--" (214) (said by the mother after leaving her daughters in pursuit of herself)"I knew what Sharla was feeling: the pull to a mother versus the great discomfort of spending time with a stranger who asked too much of you.
Not the things she named, such as living with her at least part-time; not the things she did not name that were the things she wanted most, such as a move back inside me to the lit place she used to occupy.
I have some reservations about this book about family relationships, especially mothers and daughters, but not so many I wouldn't sample another title by the same author.
Near the end of the book, some twists do appear that I hadn't fully anticipated, but they simply reinforced my earlier reactions: oh, so that is why those earlier parts seemed "wrong" somehow, even clumsy and unconvincing.
An author interview and reader's guide questions appeared in my paperback edition, encouraging the possibility of using the book in a book discussion group.
Finally, little time investment is needed as the book is neither dense, nor long, and contains topics that could create an interesting group discussion.
Ginny and Sharla are sisters with a complicated shared past and a difficult, all-too-grown-up mission: make peace with a mother, “not a good person,” they have not seen nor spoken to for 35 years.
Their mother’s choices, the results of depression and boredom in marriage, are uncommon and perhaps unforgivable during that era, resulting in two daughters’ abandoned feelings that resonate to anyone who has lost a mother, either physically or psychologically.
Read for yourself, all you who have a mother, daughter or sisters, to remember that what we keep is a choice, for better or worse.
A book about the love/hate relationship between a mother and her two daughters.Mom, Marion, is a typical 50's housewife: she cooks, cleans, sews, and takes care of her two daughters (Ginny, the narrator, and Sharla).
And so Marion leaves her family.Her daughters are devastated: why would mom do this?
I could understand Marion's leaving her husband; marriages do die, sometimes.
But I was furious that Marion left her girls.
Being a wife and mother in the 50's was no picnic, and Marion suffered in the marriage and she suffered after she left the family.
