https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/293871.How_to_Speak_Politely_and_Why
This book should actually be titled How to Speak Properly, as this is less about manners (which I expected) and more about grammar/usage in verbal expression (nothing about spelling or punctuation).
Some of the major problems in American language are addressed here, that misusage that pervades the dialogue of even the best-intentioned parents and teachers who serve as examples to today's youth, such as when to use him/her/me as opposed to I/he/she, and how to remember that adverbs do in fact exist even though we rarely hear them in language anymore.
Hopefully, this book can revive proper American English, but perhaps since it's in book format and not a powerpoint, who knows?
I recommend this book to adults who need a refresher course (almost everyone) and students of every age.
A great book to read with your young kids to explain some simple grammar tips for everyday speaking. Fun pictures and excellent explanations for the grammar rules. Kids will learn without realizing it.
A fun way to learn (and remember) some grammar.
A fun easy read on basic speaking principles emphasizing politeness and grammer.Warm and balanced, an enjoyable experience because "good sentences are like good gardens."
I just love books like this! This is a reprint of a 1934 book by Leaf, formally titled, Grammar Can Be Fun.Easy explanations and humorous stick drawings drive home grammar lessons.Poor Old GDon't you feel sorry for poor old G? He gets so lonely. So many children leave him out when they talk about things that are fun -- likeplayindancinrunninfishinWhere is poor G?Let's always take G along too.
This book was really cute. This book is a reprint of the 1934 version Grammar can be fun. This book is really clever, and it taught me a thing or two (for instance, it's I drink/I drank/I have drunk... I never used to know what to say for that last one and was too lazy to look it up). It made me laugh to read the "i do not have no books" and "i don't want no apple" bad examples. I wanted to come up with more bad examples. Haha! Anyways, fun book.
This book was originally written in 1934 and goes through some very basic grammar principles, such as not using "ain't," not using "gonna'" or "gimme," may vs. can, etc. It had big font and stick figures, so I can't decide if it's a grammar book for elementary kids who are visual learners or maybe an older ESL student, but I'm a little surprised that my active 1st grade boy has requested this book several times at bedtime. Has he absorbed any of it? It's hard to say.
This is a cute but rather long book about having good manners. My oldest (6) seemed to enjoy it the most and we read it regularly. It does have good grammar tips that are simple for young minds as well as fun ways to remember them.
We use Munro Leaf's books (How to Speak Politely and Why, How to Behave and Why, and Manners Can Be Fun) as an informal etiquette class in our homeschool. Excellent and fun way to explain manners and good behavior. We reread them every year or when we forget our manners. :-)
This is a really cute book and it's a lot of fun to read! It's got great illustrations.
Way too old for my boys now, but it will probably help them in English class down the road.
Noone is too old to read thsi book!
A 50s looking book that teaches children how to speak politely and why they should. The illustrations are often simple stick figures but they're cute.
This one is a little extra clever.
