https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/720238.The_Mother_s_Recompense
One of Edith Wharton's later novels.Kate Clephane has lived on the French Riviera since being exiled from New York where she eloped with her lover.Left behind was Kate's young daughter Anne.We move on twenty years when Anne sends a telegram asking her mother back after the death of her grandmother.She settles back down to life in New York.The joy is soon threatened by the reappearance of the only man Kate had truly loved.Very gripping story.A tale of secrets which leads us to a surprising ending!
After reading "The Age of Innocence", "The House of Mirth", and "Custom the Country" I thought I'd read the best of Wharton.
Unlike her earlier gilded age settings "Recompense" takes place post World War I and there are cars, easier travel within and without the country, telephones provide easier communication.
In her early twenties Kate ran from her rules worshiping husband, leaving behind her three year old daughter.
When her husband and then her mother in law die Kate's daughter invites her back home to live with her.
The one love affair she allowed herself during her exile comes back to haunt her threatening her new life however.
A little gem of a novel about scandal and shame as only Edith Wharton could dream up! Actually, this is the sort of situation Edith Wharton might have gotten herself into, so it probably didn’t take too much imagination. Kate Clephane has been exiled abroad after abandoning her husband and infant daughter years earlier. Now the daughter is grown up, engaged to be married, and wants to reunite with her mother. A crisis arises when Kate discovers that she knows her daughter’s fiancé a bit too well…..
4.5/5. Se puede narrar una historia o se puede representar esta de forma tan exquisita que al leer las páginas solo puedas pensar '¡esto, esto!' a cada párrafo. Pues lo segundo.
He subrayado párrafos enteros porque no se pueden decir más verdades y porque no esperaba que una novela de época mostrara tan explícitamente a una protagonista dueña de sí misma (aunque ella crea que han sido los demás y su juicio los que han dictado su vida).
After many, many years, Kate re-enters her, now adult, daughter's life, and the New York society she fled so long ago.
The problem is that times have changed, and Kate does not well understand the social mores of the new age, her daughter's age, and this contributes to the moral dilemma she encounters.
In my opinion, this novel highlights Wharton's assessment of the stark differences between the late-Victorian and Edwardian Eras and the early period of the Roaring-Twenties and its impact upon American upper class society.
This was a Wharton novel that I'd not yet read, and I'm so glad that I have now!
Because Kate Clephane was a real, complex, human being, and she was as interesting as any woman I have met in the pages of an Edith Wharton novel.
Kate simply loves her daughter above anything else.She sees that society has changed, but she quickly finds that she cannot talk about her past; the rules may be different for her daughter’s generation, but not for hers.It was fascinating to watch, but the key point of the story was still to come:Kate sees Chris Fenno again; and then she discovers that he is the man her daughter plans to marry.She is shattered.
Kate hadbeen living in Europe (on strict orders and with a generousallowance from her husband and his family) on the fringe ofgood society for 18 years and the book begins with the arrivalof her daughter's telegram informing her that with the deathof old Mrs. Clephane, Anne is eager to resume a mother/daughterrelationship with her again.Kate Celphane is not particularly likable.
As a lover of old books, imagine how thrilled I was to find a 1925 copy with a BookCrossing label on it!The Mother's Recompense is a story of mistakes and regrets.
Unfortunately her happy reunion is short lived as Anne, the daughter, announces her engagement to Kate's old lover.The story sounds hokey but it's written with an unusual amount of frankness that one is drawn into Kate's world.
The first twenty pages are worth three stars, and then it's all downhill from there. I did not like this book, in the sense that I'd rather have badgers chew off my toes than read it again.
Kate Clephane, 20 anni prima dello svolgimento del libro, fugge dal borioso marito, dalla rigida suocera, dall’amata figlioletta e in generale dalla noiosa società americana per passare due anni di sogno con un non-si-sa-chi miliardario, a bordo di uno yacht che veleggia nel mediterraneo.
Dopo due anni l’incanto finisce (non ci è dato sapere se il miliardario abbia trovato un’altra giovinetta dai folti capelli e la fronte eburnea o la fedifraga si sia resa conto dell’errore, fatto sta che finisce) e la giovane Kate passa i successivi anni ad espiare, con un irreprensibile comportamento da dama di san Vincenzo, in Europa.
Il personaggio di Kate che aveva avuto il coraggio di mollare marito-figlia non ha il coraggio di dire: io e Chris abbiamo avuto una liason?
In much the same way that Jane Austen viewed her own societal mores and prejudices through the practiced lens of an eyewitness, so too does Ms. Wharton unveil this era that has become know as the Gilded Age. It was actually later on - in the 1920's - that Mark Twain coined this revealing phrase.
"The Mother's Recompense" opens in the south of France where Mrs. Clephane has lived a life in exile for a number of years.
She fled what she considered to be a stifling and utterly intolerable life as a wife and mother in upper class New York society.
By the second chapter we are familiar enough with Kate that it would be reasonable to use her given name for the rest of the story.
However, for the remainder of this novel, Wharton continues to emphasize Kate’s married name - possibly a reminder of her status as a woman owned by her husband and his family - no matter how far Kate tries to remove herself from that family situation.
Equally striking is that we do not hear the last name of Kate’s love interest until far into the novel, making it feel that his quality exists in a completely different vein than Kate’s as a woman of society.
Possibly the most scandalous book written in the early 1900s that I've ever read!..Kate Clephane is living the life of an exiled socialite on the French Riviera when we meet her.
But then a telegram comes that will alter the course of her life - the daughter she abandoned at infancy, now in her early 20s, has called her back to New York, and they have a second chance at the relationship they've both desperately missed.
But soon enough a secret threatens to destroy their blossoming affection for each other - the only man who Kate has ever loved (and who broke her heart) is back in New York...and is engaged to none other than her daughter.
I love Edith Wharton so I am thankful to be able to make my way through her works.
This was a great book that I think explored the themes of secrets and sacrifice.
I thought it was a very interesting plot twist and I still can't decide if I agree with the protagonist's decision but that often makes me appreciate a book.
I also appreciated that the results of her actions were going to have consequences regardless of the choice she made.
I think it paints the reality of life.Wharton is an amazing writer and a really insightful, even with her novels written decades ago.
Not as good as "House of Mirth" or "Ethan Frome" but the writing engaged me and the mother was sympathetic. I wish the novel had gone more in-depth about her marriage and husband's family. The rest of the characters weren't very developed like Anne and Chris.
The story unfolds in a carefully paced manner, but then takes on life when the main character, Kate Clephane (the "Mother") attends, with her daughter Anne, a "little evening party." You see, Kate ran away to Europe a long time ago, away from her husband, her young daughter...her country.
Move to the present, and Anne has asked Kate to live with her (after the deaths of Kate's well-to-do husband and mother-in-law).And oh, that "little evening party." This is where the story intensifies.
In Europe there are  more contrasts, I suppose," Kate thinks to herself.
"What things?" Kate Clephane tought; but dared not speak.
Una situazione difficile le cui dinamiche sono impossibili da prevedere; Kate potrebbe fuggire ancora, ignorando la richiesta, ma qualcosa in lei la muove...
This isn't among my favorite Wharton novels, but it's a compelling and thought-provoking story.
As I read, I was underlining something on almost every page because so many of the observations seemed smart or were beautifully written.Like most of Edith Wharton's heroines, Kate Clephane winds up trapped between her own strong emotions and equally strong social expectations.
There's an intensely physical element to the novel's central problem -- a conflict between Kate's physical and social identity as a mother and her left-over feelings for a former lover.
The plot: daughter is (unwittingly) going to marry her mother's former lover.
Wharton works this moral dilemma quite nicely, but then there's the introduction by Auchincloss where he says that the central problem of the novel is that the mother is "making too much of the circumstance" of her daughter marrying her ex-lover.
But in the end, the daughter does marry him; the mother never tells, and the novel concludes on a rather sour note, with the mother on her own again, alone, back in Europe.
I was completely taken by this mother/daughter story published when Edith Wharton was 63 years old.
The mother Kate Clephane comes from early 1900's respectable New York society but is living an expatriate life on the Riviera because of her fall from grace twenty years ago....the result of having impetuously left her domineering husband and 3-year-old daughter to go off with a lover.
The story opens with Kate’s now grownup daughter Anne telegramming her mother to come back home and live with her, her disapproving father and grandmother having both died by this point.
Imagine Edith Wharton had written The Graduate, and it was set in post-WWI New York, and you'll get a vague idea of this book.Kate Clephane left her cold, boring husband and toddler daughter for an outwardly exotic, actually faux-bohemian and depressing salon life on the Riviera.
Now, twenty years later, with her ex-husband and his mother dead, her twenty-something daughter calls her home to New York.
Anne Clephane has fallen in love with Chris Fenno, the thirty-something former lover (and still layabout, Lost Generation type) of her mother.
Will Kate tell her daughter, with whom she is so desperately happy to be reunited?
This is a pretty tame novel by Wharton standards (or by my idea of Wharton's stature and talent lead me to believe).
There are places in the story where I see her groping for the sort of social complexity and conflicting codes of social conduct that marks her best works, but all of that in this book fails to come off.
It is almost tiresome to read: I felt little for the protagonist's quandary (or perceived quandary) and became increasingly bored with her rationalizations and lack of self-knowledge.
Not my favorite Wharton, but a fast, compelling read all the same.
A woman who, in earlier years, deserted her husband and young daughter, finds her way back cleared by the passage of time and some convenient deaths.
All is peachy until the mother finds her grown daughter attracted to man she herself has been involved with.
Daughter Anne was so earnest and intense that she needed a dose of truth.
Reaching the end of Wharton's major works, which is a bummer.
At some point I may have to break down and read the short stories.
I found a copy of this book in an antique store in Nebraska.
It was written near the end of Wharton's career, twenty years after The House of Mirth.
I'm not totally taken with this book.
I think there were some good scenes with mothers and daughters, which is cool, but there are only so many times you can read Wharton blabbing on about the sunlight in the Riviera waking someone up before you wish she would just get on with it.
Also, because this book was published in 1925 (and the novel's action is contemporaneous) you get a lot of uncomfortable-making Whartonian descriptions of flappers.
Plot: It was pretty easy to figure out where things were headed in this book, but that didn't detract from the story.
It's interesting to read about how once small incident can so greatly affect the lives of many.Characters: None of the characters were particularly likable, but Wharton excels at writing characters that are fully fleshed out and seem very real.
They don't need to be likable because you feel like you're reading about real people.Overall: Some of Wharton's less famous works are really great, and this is one of those.
I always appreciate that her books are high quality, but are very readable and accessible.
I love Edith Wharton, and I liked this one a lot.
This is the tale of Kate Clephane, an unhappy woman who has been living in exile in Europe after leaving her stifling husband and infant daughter, Anne, twenty years ago.
Now her mother-in-law and husband are dead and her grown daughter has invited her mother back to New York.
A happy reunion until Anne announces her engagement to Chris Fenno, a man she doesn't realize had been in a relationship with her mother years earlier.
It's a little bit scandalous and a little bit melancholy, and a whole lot Edith.
After spending much of the last two decades in Europe, Kate returns to 1920s New York to reunite with the daughter she abandoned eighteen years ago. All goes well until she discovers that her daughter is engaged to one of Kate's former lovers. The Mother's Recompense is not as strong as House of Mirth, Custom of the Country, Age of Innocence, or many of Wharton's short stories, but it is an entertaining read nonetheless. It keep me absorbed during the down time on my last two days of jury service.
Not her best and clearly much ado about something...Kate Clephane is neither as interesting or sympathetic as Lily Bart...and Anne is not a heroine to be much loved. The biting social commentary is somewhat missing ...and you can't help but feel sorry for poor Fred Landers - marry him already, there is no reason not to!!!! And so no hero like a Lawrence Selden or a Newland Archer. And yet I enjoyed it...not many writers can describe earrings as the poisonous antennae of some giant insect and therein help the reader thoroughly know whom they are reading about.
It's Edith so I'm biased. The plot is a ripper. If you like the deliciously melancholy ends of House of Mirth and Age of Innocence, you'll love the end of this. If you don't understand why Lawrence Selden and Lily Bart couldn't get their shizz together or why Newland Archer and Ellen Olenska couldn't be together in Paris after all, you'll want to hurl this book across the room. As far as a chapter by chapter lesson in plotting and character arc, it's tight. Check it out.
