https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249.Tropic_of_Cancer
It always bewilders me when people judge a book according to the moral judgment that they pass on its characters.
I was like, don’t take it personally, lady; he’s not your husband.
Should writers feel like their characters will be competing in a popularity contest in the minds of the readers?
Aren’t evil and immorality – whatever they mean – facts of life that should be dissected and explained by literature?I didn’t bother with the morality of the hero.
I don’t care if he slept with a whore and then stole her money and ran away.
This may be the greatest book ever written.
There are no more books to be written, thank God.
This is not a book.
This is not a book, in the ordinary sense of the word.
I am going to sing for you, a little off key perhaps, but I will sing.
I will sing while you croak, I will dance over your dirty corpse....
To sing you must first open your mouth.
You must have a pair of lungs, and a little knowledge of music.
The essential thing is to want to sing.
I am singing."
I got through the first 150 pages before I decided that life is too short to waste time reading books you hate.
Maybe I'm not smart enough or deep enough to appreciate a book like Tropic of Cancer, but for me each page was a tedious struggle.
The author of the book's introduction boldy asserts that Henry Miller is "the greatest living author" (obviously, the edition I read was published prior to Miller's death in 1980), but I found Miller's frenetic, meandering style tiresome.
I kept thinking, "Henry, for chrissakes, give me something, ANYTHING to latch onto here!" That's when I decided it was time to give up.
My fiction addictionHad lost all its frictionI needed raw meat but this new stuff was veggiePredictable, safe, and not bold, tough and edgyI thought Tropic of CancerWould be the answerFor years it was bannedThroughout every landBut five c words per pageSuppressed masculine rageAnd tours of French pudendaWas his only agendaSo reading Henry MillerJust made me feel illerAnd illerAnd illerAnd iller
Tropic of Cancer is held in high regard by Authors that I respect.
In particular, George Orwell (whose essay, “Inside the Whale”) has high praise for Miller's bravery, directness and honesty.Miller's foul language has lost the power to impress; modern readers will not feel the level of shock and awe experienced by previous generations.
The book has so much critical adulation that I have spent a few weeks ruminating before expressing my own view.I don't like it....Oh, don't mistake me, I “get” it, I also understand that highbrow intellectual theory is bandied about in praise of the “style”.
I am going to create a new goodreads bookshelf titled "sausage party." It will exist solely for Henry Miller.
Multiply by 300 pages, and you basically have Miller's book.The argument for it being a classic:There are two basic arguments over why Tropic of Cancer should be considered a classic, starting with the book itself: It is, after all, a shining example of early Modernism, the exact kind of radical departure from the flowery Victorian style that so many young artists were embracing back then, here done in a mature and self-assured way that builds on the literary experiments of the previous twenty years, but that finally makes it palatable for the first time to the general reading audience (and by "palatable" I mean "not incomprehensible," thank you very MUCH James Freaking Joyce).
George Orwell wrote an essay about this book called, “Inside the Whale.” The title alludes to the Jonah story in the bible.
In that story Jonah rejected his responsibility, ran, and was swallowed by a whale.
Such a person feels happy and safe in the world, has plans, wants to buy a condo in the suburbs, etc.
Clearly, Miller is not a Jonah.
For Miller, the world is guilty and the best a person can hope for is not to be an accomplice, etc.
But, he makes it clear that he is not a Miller fan.
I wanted to get drunk and go on a hooker spree, to move to Paris and generally debauch for the rest of my 20's....Then I realized I kind of wanted to do all this anyways but with Miller's aid I could and even better I could disguise the whole thing as "literary." I struggled through Capricorn, through The Books in My Life, through a number of Miller's personal letters and musings.
I even made a pilgrimage to Big Sur. Then I picked up Richard Brautigan or "Cannary Row" or something and I realized I could skip Paris.
There are books you have to read at a certain age.
This should be read when you're young and stupid.
Are you young and stupid now?
Fantastic; read this and hate me.
Then read something else.
Maybe something for old people, like Henry James.I kinda hate to admit it, but I abandoned ship on this book.
(The idea is cunts.) "I am writing exactly what I want to write and the way I want to do it.
Perhaps it's twaddle."- Henry Miller"Cunt" like a thousand times- what Henry Miller wants to write
I am usually a fan of zeitgeist crystallization in literature.
Here is a true account/fiction which places a smudgy magnifying glass to the underbelly of a famed city.
Paris has NEVER been described THIS ugly!The protagonist is Mr. Miller, and he lives in absolute poverty, which enhances his artist's eye.
Miller is a vagabond, like I said, whose adventures pretty much resemble those of Marcello Mastrioanni from the F.
Miller is more poet than cohesive storyteller, sure.
Though somewhat different (this one is about writers in Paris, the other about journalists in San Juan, Puerto Rico), I prefer and can say more about "The Rum Diary" by Hunter S.
He asks me to (view spoiler)[scratch (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[shave (hide spoiler)] his armpits.This (view spoiler)[journal (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[novel (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[collection of fragmentary notes (hide spoiler)] is a prolonged (view spoiler)[insult to (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[kick in the pants of  (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[God (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Art (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Man (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Destiny (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Time (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Love/ (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Beauty (hide spoiler)].You, (view spoiler)[Tania (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Irene (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Mona (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Llona (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Elsa (hide spoiler)] are my (view spoiler)[chaos (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[fever (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[fire (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[passion (hide spoiler)].I am (view spoiler)[qunt-struck/ (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[a handful (hide spoiler)].I know how to (view spoiler)[inflame (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[fill (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[iron out every wrinkle in (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[shoot hot bolts into (hide spoiler)] your (view spoiler)[qunt (hide spoiler)] with my (view spoiler)[dick (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[putz (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[erection (hide spoiler)].The Pornographic ImaginationHenry Miller wrote "Tropic of Cancer" between 1930 and 1934.
What is a writer’s external world?One is ejected into the world like a dirty little mummy; the roads are slippery with blood and no one knows why it should be so.
They hang there like an idée fixe in the mind of a monomaniac.
Comes up to me with his head thrown back and the rain splashing in his face turns the golden sands to mud.
The philosophy, mind you!Paris is a cradle of arts.
The only reason this book is a classic is because men were editors and this book gave them boners.
And then male readers had boners and women were shocked with Miller's vocabulary.
So, it wasn’t that difficult to become a classic.
Especially in those days, when a word cunt was such a taboo.
But, again who am I joking, I have a few Irish/English male friends who blush when somebody says cunt around them.
And they love Miller, so I think that's the individual matter of upbringing and bon ton, because in my mother language we don’t have ''that'' much offensive word.
“I believe that today more than ever a book should be sought after even if it has only one great page in it. We must search for fragments, splinters, toenails, anything that has ore in it, anything that is capable of resuscitating the body and the soul.” Tropic of Cancer was a visceral, pulsating heap of 1930’s Paris, served up by an American expat writer/drifter/ne’er-do-well. Interestingly, this thing was banned in the U.S. for over 25 years due to its so-called “obscene content.” I personall
In that sense, the unabashed dirtiness in this book reminded me of the far more potent, lavish descriptions of filth in Huysmans’ À rebours.
“...the monstrous thing is not that men have created roses out of this dung heap, but that, for some reason or other, they should want roses.
Another aspect of this book worth mentioning is Miller’s description of the dispassionate, disinterested youth culture that he saw hanging in lifeless tatters around him.
What diminished this otherwise dynamic reading experience, and the reason I only gave it 3 stars, was Miller’s prose, which felt inconsistent to me.
So, if you are squeamish about sex on books, or about sex itself, then don't read this review.
My review is definitely lame compared to its sexual content.But not reading the book is like being in the USA without tasting bagel in one of their international airports.
I think that bread (rarely sold here in the Philippines) defines what being in the US is for me.American Henry Miller (1891-1980), a struggling writer, went to Paris alone and almost penniless.
What a guy!Reading Cancer, you can see why.
Next time you come to the US, why not bring this book and read this in the airport while having a bagel?

“I am going to sing for you, a little off key perhaps, but I will sing.” This is definitely not one of those books which you take on your holidays to a sunny-side parks, get cozy, and read, as it contains extreme contents, acts, thoughts, and ideas which would leave you dumbfounded and deranged.
what you will.” Henry himself takes us through the dark slippery streets crowded by Fifteen-Franc whores (pardon my French!), full of misfortune, ennui, grief, and suicide, of the bohemian French Capital city.
It's like getting without waiting, a blow to the consciousness that leave sequels to the end of life..............................................................................Considered by me as a work that definitely marked my fine youth, "The Tropic of Cancer" is a series of books that my father had for some time, the complete collection.
Still, it is a disturbing work.Here are the list of the complete collection of what I think it is:Correct me if I'm wrong:-The Tropic of Cancer-The Tropic of Capricorn-Nexus-Plexus-SexusUnfortunately, left him only a few books ..
The only thing that saved this book from a 1 star rating is the occasional stellar paragraph such as this:"For some reason or other man looks for the miracle, and to accomplish it he will wade through blood.
Everything is endured - disgrace, humiliation, poverty, war, crime, ennui - in the belief that overnight something will occur, a miracle, which will render life tolerable.
And all the while a meter is running inside and there is no hand that can reach in there and shut it off."It's paragraphs like that one, interspersed between pages and pages of verbal masturbation, that made it possible for me to even finish this book.
Yes it talks a LOT about sex and in a language we aren't really used to reading in literature but there is so much else to this book than sex.
It is misogynistic, it uses the C-word (a lot), it's dirty and gross in places but it is also beautiful and brilliant and the writing moved me in ways books rarely do.
So I don't care if I'm not supposed to like it because I LOVED it and am so very glad that I read it.
I read a lot of the reviews on the book before writing this and I found not very many that were thought out.
I recall one reviewer giving up on the book because the "frenetic style was tiresome." Usually when someone has feelings like that, it is because they don't understand the literature and so their mind wanders.
Another review noted that Miller's supposed "shock tactics" were outdated.
If you read the opening quote by Emerson, it states something to the effect that telling a true story about yourself is something near to impossible, this is Miller's attempt at doing that.
"Some day I'll write a book about myself, about my thoughts. I don't mean just a piece of introspective analysis... I mean that I'll lay myself down on the operating table and I'll expose my whole guts... every goddamned thing. Has anybody ever done that before? - What the hell are you smiling at? Does it sound naïf?"
In short, I think Tropic of Cancer is a masterwork. Do read it! However let me yield the floor to George Orwell who's done far more thinking about the novel than I -- from his essay "Inside the Whale."http://www.ourcivilisation.com/smartb...
Tropic of Cancer first published in 1934 in France, but this edition was banned in the United States until 1961.Tropic of Cancer is one of the most important and beautiful pieces of prose in the history of English literature, It isn't an ordinary novel, it's Miller's life in pairs, how he sees his friends, how he thinks about human being's big questions.
O Tania, where now is that warm cunt of yours, those fat, heavy garters, those soft, bulging thighs?
I will ream out every wrinkle in your cunt, Tania, big with seed.
I will send you home to your Sylvester with an ache in your belly and your womb turned inside out.
Your Sylvester!
I shoot hot bolts into you, Tania, I make your ovaries incandescent.
Your Sylvester is a little jealous now?
He feels the remnants of my big prick.
I am fucking you, Tania, so that you'll stay fucked.
I will tear off a few hairs from your cunt and paste them on Boris' chin.
Несравним. Махам една звезда единствено заради хедонизма, който бавно прогнива душата и те прави скапаняк. :D edit: връщам звездата, щото е недостижим.
How else would he have attracted the love interest of such an intelligent, beautiful woman as Anaiis Nin?
I also enjoyed reading Nin's diary showing her side of their mutual lust affair.
They both survived off other people for the most part: Anaiis was married to a wealthy man and slept with him and his contemporaries as well as Miller; Miller was married to whoever would take him in and feed him (some food, but most often intellectual conversation) and slept with his friend's friend's friends, as well as a plethora of prostitutes.
Henry Miller performs a cunning stunt. There is no odious P.C. here, which one must deplore. This faux-memoir isnt "sexy," but it is a vomit of hilarity. I long for the Baz Luhrmann musical version. Meantime, plunge in, whacckkk it, and then slurp a gonarrhea cocktail. Btw, don't eat the ham sandwich in the bidet.
In fact, there are also moments where I too got annoyed by the author's 'in your face' style.
I cannot believe that anyone can read this book without feeling a bit annoyed and disturbed.
The book has a remarkable contemporary feel.
While France and Syria might be very places in terms of their respective aesthetics, the destruction, however, envelops that difference.The book has been fiercely criticized for its explicit sexual content.
I guess all his descriptions of sex, use of 'provocative' words such as erection, cunt, penis is quite mechanical.
