https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/895886.Lassie_Come_Home
I think everyone and their mother knows the story of Lassie. I mean, there are countless movie adaptations. But for some reason, I haven't picked up the book until now. And I've got to say, this truly is a beautiful and heartwarming story, from start to finish. It was great hearing from a dogs point of view, and the struggles she survived. The story even had a few unexpected twists.So in conclusion, amazing book, and I've got a feeling that it'll stay one of my favorite children's books for a really long time.
I have always wanted to read this book; I've seen the movie many times. Now I finally read it as an adult. However, I didn't read it just as ‘story’, but from the perspective of the “Great Journey Home” which we are all on. My read was a quest for universal themes, and one in particular. This quote had me in tears when I first encountered it and saw it as pertaining to my own journey back to Jesus: ‘...there was no hesitation. She was going home. Her senses were now aware of a great satisfaction
I have always wanted to read this book; I've seen the movie many times.
Now I finally read it as an adult.
However, I didn't read it just as ‘story’, but from the perspective of the “Great Journey Home” which we are all on.
Her senses were now aware of a great satisfaction, for there was peace inside her being.
This is a classic story because we are all called by something deep inside we don't understand which compels us to journey Home.
Sometimes we're aware of it; most times not.
Lassie is one of those stories I thought I knew.
I was surprised to discover the actual story is very different from my perception of the story.Lassie is a strikingly beautiful collie owned by a poor family in Great Britain.
The father loses his job and decides to sell the dog to a rich man in the community.
The man takes the dog to Scotland, but, somehow, though the distance is enormous, Lassie finds her way back to her family.Lassie is a genuinely heartwarming story without ever falling into sappiness, and that's a difficult thing to do.
O dobroj i vjernoj Lassie samo sam pogledala film, tako da je ova nepravda konačno ispravljena.
but when hard times hit, the family is forced into making a life-changing and heart-wrenching decision.The town of Greenall Bridge could always depend on seeing Lassie trotting down the streets with her owner, young Joe Carraclough.As the story unfolds, you will discover how determined and loyal that a dog can really be.Through the experiences of Lassie, you will meet many of the villagers, some with thoughtful regards, and some characters with bad intentions.
The dedication and perseverance of the dog, to the quaint villages of England and Scotland, and all the characters within, along with their lovely British accents...
This book would be great for any animal-loving child, but adults like myself can find enjoyment, too.
The writing style isn't too simplistic, actually giving kids credit for having some brains.
The book also gives children credit for being able to handle more mature subjects, without going into any gruesome details.
(view spoiler)[The dog Toots is killed with a cudgel, for instance.
(hide spoiler)] Lassie's journey is touching, and I think both adults and children should find this book rewarding.
i was surprised by the emotionally maturity that the author gave to the son.i love this book.
Ala-asteella koulun kirjastossa oli tämä kirja. Luettiin kaverin kanssa kilpaa. Pistetekniikalla tehdyt kuvitukset ovat jääneet mieleen. Kirjan kansi oli erilainen kun tässä.
I had to put this book on here, because this was by far one of my favorite books when I was little... I would constantly check Lassie out from my elementary library and read it over and over agian... It got me into stories like Call of the Wild, and White Fang... But this book was one of the books that made me the reader I am today... I love lassie! =)
This is a book that a read and retread as a child as well as watched the movie. The characters, the Scottish countryside and the heart wrenching story of the loyalty of a dog and a family's poverty still stay with me 45 years later. It is a testament to how a great book can become a part of our being and life experience, as if we lived it ourselves.
This is the book (coupled with the old TV show) that made the collie my all-time favorite dog. Even now when I know that having a sheep dog in a house in the suburbs doesn't work out very well, I still can't help but stop and stare in fascination whenever I see a collie or a sheltie (the miniature equivalent) on the street or on TV.
I love Lassie❤
เปนหนังสือทีเคยรักมากทีเคยอานตอนเดกพอมาไดอานอีกครัง ความรักยังอยูเหมือนเดิมแลวความทรงจำเกาๆ กกลับมากับพลอตพืนๆ และวิธีเลาเรียบๆแตมันเปนหนังสือหมาทีดีทีสุดเทาทีเคยอาน (และเทาทีจำได)
เป็นหนังสือที่เคยรักมากที่เคยอ่านตอนเด็กพอมาได้อ่านอีกครั้ง ความรักยังอยู่เหมือนเดิมแล้วความทรงจำเก่าๆ ก็กลับมากับพล็อตพื้นๆ และวิธีเล่าเรียบๆแต่มันเป็นหนังสือหมาที่ดีที่สุดเท่าที่เคยอ่าน (และเท่าที่จำได้)
“TO OWN A DOG” What does it take to be a true dog owner and dog lover? Certainly more than a piece of paper or a pedigree chart. Besides, what is an owner compared to being a dog’s one, true Master? Eric Knight’s 1940 tale of a dog who risks everything to be reunited with the boy who loves her leaped into the hearts of readers the world over. Based on his youth in the mountains of Yorkshire the story opens with basic conflict: Man versus man, but unfolds into dog versus the world: man, beast, a
Besides, what is an owner compared to being a dog’s one, true Master?
Twelve-year-old Joe Carraclough adores his tricolor collie, Lassie, who though bred to be working dog with sheep, enjoys favored pet status in the family’s humble cottage.
But times are hard for these people; the mines are closed and Joe’s father, desperate for work and the means to feed his family, reluctantly sells Lassie to the rich, blustery old Duke—who also has a keen eyes for dogs.
Yet each day around 4 pm the dog’s strict Time Sense urges her to go meet the Boy at school.
Timeless classic and a lesson of friendship and perseverance; I loved this wonderful dog story when I was a little kid and it's definitely worth reading. I can't say I cared for the film adaptation(s?) but I really enjoyed the book and I highly recommend it.
Aklıma gelmişken! Bir ara tekrar okumak da yarar var :)
Can't help but love Lassie! I wish I had more to say on this one, but I don't really have any complaints or notable praises. It's well-written, engaging, and I enjoyed it. Next!
Apesar de não possuir alta qualidade literária, resolvi dar a pontuação máxima de cinco estrelas a este romance, porque o recomendo a toda a genteTrata-se do romance original que iniciou o fenómeno à volta da personagem canina, publicado pela E-Primatur, por ocasião do seu 75º aniversário, com as ilustrações originais de Marguerite Kirmse.
Infelizmente, viria a morrer com apenas 45 anos num desastre de aviação, pelo que todos os livros e filmes que se seguiram, apesar de inspirados na personagem Lassie, são da responsabilidade de outros autores.Eric Knight e a sua segunda mulher Jere Brylawski eram criadores de collies e este livro, apesar de se tratar de ficção, está longe de ser uma “história da carochinha”.
Raamatut mäletan oma lapsepõlvest.
Ma ei suuda meenutada, kas ma olen seda varem lugenud või mitte, sest Lassie lugu on tuttav ju kõigile.
Lausa nii tuttav, et tahaks kõikidele kaunitele kollidele Lassie öelda.
Nii et kui hea sõber Eiemari pani oma kollile nimeks Lasse, siis tundus see kohe õige ja loomuliku valikuna ega tekitanud küsimusi.
Oma teel kohtub ta nii halbade kui heade inimestega, kuigi halbade inimeste tõttu õpib ta inimestest üldse eemale hoidma.Tõeliselt südamlik ja ilus lugu, mida tasubki ehk nüüd jõuluootuse ajal üle lugeda.
Ilmselt tänu sellele loole olen alati pidanud kollisid kõige ilusamateks ja targemateks koerteks.
This sweet book was so great. I would have picked it up earlier if I had known it was set in Yorkshire and Scotland and not a remake of the TV show. My boys loved it. If only I could fake a Yorkshire accent.
The nine-year-old me loved this book to bits and pieces, and no wonder. It's such a moving and heartwarming story for anyone who identifies her/himself as a dog person.
I read this when I was twelve. I didn't know there was a book behind the TV show till then.
4.5 stars
Great
This is described as being a "new picture-book edition written for young readers." The art is beautifully done by Susan Jeffers.
She captures elements of the story that will help young (and old) readers visualize the setting.
There's a beautifully rendered full-page map that shows Lassie's journey from the very north of Scotland to Greenall Bridge in England.I have not read the original version of Lassie, but this seems to capture the essence of the story.
A few transitional sentences would have helped.
I look forward to reading it with one of the kids.
(But I won't be reading the original story.
I read this to my son recently and it is wonderful!
A friend gave it to me because she and I have a dream-in-planning to visit England next summer with our families.
It takes place in Northern England in Yorkshire, so I tried my best to read it aloud to my son using a Yorkshire accent.
Lassie is taken by a wealthy lord to his home in Scotland to train for dog shows.
The book we read had a map of the regions involved so we could trace Lassie's journey.
I highly recommend reading this aloud to your children.
This book is awesome i mean awesome.its about this dog named Lassie and her best friend Joe the huma
A spectacular book!SPOILER ALERT:A beatiful book about a dog who tries to find her way home.
She starts with her family as a fine dog.
She has never left this family.
She waits for her little master after he has completed the school day.
One day she is sold to a mean duke who doesn't spend a lot of time with her.
She escapes to her family, but is always brought back.
One day she is taken hundreds of miles away from her family.
She finds her way back home, to the suprise of many people.
On her way she is helped and helps people, much like her family.
Excellent writing.
All I knew about Lassie was from later books written about a dog who helps everyone in the neighborhood.
I was not prepared for this soul-wrenching account of a dog repeatedly being taken from her home and her struggle to return.
I can't handle reading about animals suffering, so I had to skim quickly through a few chapters.
I bawled every time Lassie was taken away from Joe, and my six-year-old daughter had to talk me through it to keep me reading out loud!
I'm very happy to report that, at the end, Lassie really does come home!
Read this to my girls before nap time, it took us a couple days.
My girls were concerned because I was crying at the end, but we made it through.great story about a boy and his dog.
the dog is sold to a wealthy family because the Dad lost his job and they need money.
However, the dog keeps getting away and returning to the boy.Then the new owner takes her 800 miles away and of course she escapes and heads home.
the book is a tender account of her hardships to reach her beloved boy.It has a happy ending.
