https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18775247-mr-mercedes
Plus, if a thriller is going to set up some kind of mano e mano contest between it’s hero and villain then it needs to figure out some way to provide believable reasons as to why the fight has to remain between the two of them.Even though King goes to considerable efforts to try and rationalize why Hodges feels like he has to go after Mr. Mercedes without involving the cops, the results have varying degrees of success.
This shit is strewn throughout the whole fucking book, melting my brain and making me honestly think that Stephen King farmed this book out to Dean Koontz, or the gardener, or the ice-cream man.
He doesn't understand why a woman would want to have sex with an old overweight slob such as himself - though with good reason there, because she sure the fuck didn't seem attracted to him.
She claims to be strong, but she needs him to hold her hand through every single thing she does throughout the rest of the book, including facing her own family, which Bill doesn't know from Adam because he's only known HER for a little while.
Is this book perfect? Nope. Did I go completely fan-girl over it. Yep.Stephen Fricking King. You never fail to surprise me.This book did lag in a few spots for me. There was a insta-love going on. I don't give a sheeet. Hodges..a 64 year old retired cop gets a letter from one of the worst characters I've ever met in a book. The hunt is on. I got swept up in this book and now I'm crying a little (yes my cold heart does that occasionally). This book has characters that I was cheering so hard for b
Yep.Stephen Fricking King.
Hodges..a 64 year old retired cop gets a letter from one of the worst characters I've ever met in a book.
This book has characters that I was cheering so hard for by the end of it that my family was looking at me like I was nuts.
You feel me?.ETA: My wonderful husband and I were discussing Stephen King a whole lot while reading this book.
I asked him if we ever met Stephen King if I could sit on his lap...his answer-"Honey, I'M going to sit on his lap".
Get read King Man..get ready.
Every religion lies. Every moral precept is a delusion. Even the stars are a mirage. The truth is darkness, and the only thing that matters is making a statement before one enters it. Cutting the skin of the world and leaving a scar. That’s all history is, after all: scar tissue. Detective Bill Hodges is 62, overweight, divorced and retired. He lives alone and has an uncomfortably familiar relationship with his father’s pistol. The two spend long hours together in front of the tube, taking in
As for hard-boiled fiction, there are probably as many different definitions as there are diverse sorts of egg-layers.
King spends some time with introductions, as Mr Mercedes is the first of a planned trilogy.
Of course, Hodges is just a retired detective not a PI, but when Holly’s aunt, Janelle Patterson, (named, surely, for a certain author King has called “a terrible writer”) hires him he takes a step in the genre direction.
Mr Mercedes is most definitely a non-fantasy novel, but there are a few (really, only a few) moments when familiar King woo-woo material appears.
I feel like our expectations are too high now, and I'm right there in the mix thumbing at my nose at anything rated an average three stars.
And I'm not walking more than 4 minutes from this exact spot I'm standing in right now, by God."Or I find myself on Amazon looking at mundane stuff like vacuum cleaners and I just want a good deal and something I can plug in to suck up dirt from my carpet and I'm all like, "Alright this is a good price and it ships Prime, but ahhhhh man average of 3.8?
This results in a deadly game between the two men, which was the novel’s strong point.
The detective eventually begins to outsmart the killer, he has been dealing with men like this all his professional life after all; thus the goader becomes the goaded and sets himself up for a fall.
I’d have liked the Mercedes killer to be more unique and memorable because at this point he can easily be put under the category of “standard bad guy with all seen many times before.” That being said though, I did enjoy the alternating points of view between him and the detective.
Freakishly fantastic book!! Stephen King is one of the authors that never disappoints me. And Bill Hodges is a new book character favorite of mine!!!
This comparison may be a small insult to these novels but for me, Mr. Mercedes read like a less clever cross between Death Note by Tsugumi Ohba & You by Caroline Kepnes.The dynamic between depressed, retired cop, Bill Hodges & your friendly neighborhood psychopath, Brady Hartsfield, is reminiscent of that between L & Light Yagami.
Most of the female characters in this novel are used entirely for the benefit or characterization of the male leads.Take this quote:"The woman he slept with after he'd come to a point in his life where he thought he'd never sleep with any woman again.
MERCEDES has an opening that epitomizes Stephen King's mastery of character.
K. William Hodges, our protagonist, the reader is still reeling from the opening pages, but King manages the segue well enough, tossing us into a rather humorous scenario unfolding on Hodges's television.
One could say this is because King's written some lackluster endings over the past decade (the exception being JOYLAND, which I gave five stars to as well), but the truth of the matter is that MR.
I've always loved books that put me in the minds of their antagonists, but Brady's the first heavy whose head I simply wanted to GTFO of.
Basically my contact with his work has been on the adaptations of his works on films, mini-series, and on, that in that regard it has been quite a lot since I have watched almost all the major adaptations made.However, I thought that this book can be a priceless option since not only didn't require having read any other book before, but also, himself had described as his first "hard-boiled" detective novel, so, it meant that this supposed to be away from his traditional horror books (knowing well that he has written other kind of stories besides horror genre's pieces).Something that I truly like was that he did some references to other of his novels but using the film adaptations of them, in that way, it was clear to me that this story was in a different "universe" than the one of the previous horror novels that it's usual to have some "cross-over" references implying that the characters "exist" in the same shared book universe.
Can retired Detective Hodges bring in the killer before he kills again?Stephen King tries his hand at writing a straight up thriller in this outing.
Mr. Mercedes is a page turner, a cat and mouse thriller pitting a retired detective against the one that got away.
Since King is pretty good at ladling out the suspense, Mr. Mercedes is a stripped down version of the usual King song and dance, distilled down to its purest form.As with a lot of King books, the characters go to hell and back over the course of the book.
VSميزة أن تقرأ لكاتب مخضرم هو أن مهما كانت القصة عادية ومكررة فإنك ستدهش لمعايشتك للأحداث والتفاعل مع الشخصياتومؤلفنا هنا هو ملك الرعب والأثارة "ستيفين كينج" إلا أن الرواية للأسف إثارة فقط ولكن بطيئة لأنك بالتأكيد ستعرف النهاية قبل نصف الرواية..فهي لعبة قديمة، فقط تدور في وقتنا المعاصر و بسيارة مرسيدس حديثةحبكة معتادة تقليدية ،لعبة السمكة والصياد، القط والفأر، عسكر وحراميةالمجرم هنا مجنون بحق 'برادي هارتسفيلد'، شاب معقد ومشوه نفسيا، والعسكر هنا هو "بيل هودجز" الضابط المتقاعدوبالرغم من أن الرواية تدور من وجهتي نظر رئيسيتين ، بيل و برادي ، إلا أن عبقرية ستيفين كينج تجعلك تشعر بأن برادي هو من أكثر الشخصيات الخيالية جنونا وتعقيدا في روايته والكثير من الروايات المشابهةوكانت اﻷجزاء الخاصة بوجهة نظره هي ما جعلني أتحمل الرواية لنهايتها وتحمل بعض الملل الذي تسرب من اﻷحداث المتوقعةضابط يبحث عن مجرم ويحاول معرفة ووقف مذبحة أخري يخطط لها هذا المجرم ....
Verdict is: this is lukewarm-at-best Stephen King. Still, not as notoriously awful as more recent literary attempts (yuck Dr. Sleep yuck!). There is notable strength in the back story of the sociopathic killer. Also, a healthy handful of Stephen King elements that makes one chuckle for their inclusion in such a, well, pedestrianish tale of savagery & woe. Regular tokens such as the car-as-weapon, retiree-as-hero and death-of-secondary-protagonist midway are all happily included in this tome.
If you're going to tackle a genre where others have excelled before you, you just better bring your 'A' game and be firing on all cylinders.
Everything I wanted to feel for the stupid shit villains in Under the Dome, I felt here in spades with Brady.
And when Brady comes home and realizes what must have happened I feel like I was punched in the gut.
And it mostly was.This is a pulpy beach read and as an experiment on King's part I think it succeeds despite some serious problems.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.comWhen I first saw the cover art for Mr. Mercedes I thought , “Awwwww, how sweet – Stephen King wrote a book about a guy who drives an ice cream truck” ; ) I didn’t bother to read the synopsis. I rarely do – especially when it comes to anything by King. He writes it. I read it. End of story. Then the ratings started coming in, and boy were they polarized. I still didn’t bother reading any blurbs or reviews, I just braced myself and prepar
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.comWhen I first saw the cover art for Mr. Mercedes I thought , “Awwwww, how sweet – Stephen King wrote a book about a guy who drives an ice cream truck” ; )
I still didn’t bother reading any blurbs or reviews, I just braced myself and prepared for the worst.I’m telling all you King superfans right now to repeat the following mantra: “Stephen King did not write this.
Stephen King did not write this.
Stephen King did not write this.” Did it work?
"Everybody likes the ice cream man."Retired cop Bill Hodges is haunted by an unsolved crime where innocent people were waiting for entry into a job fair when a lone driver plows through the crowd in a Mercedes, injuring and killing many.
So to know that King's Bill Hodges trilogy is kind of a cat-and-mouse detective story didn't fill me with much excitement.
But let's cut to the chase - overall, I really enjoyed Mr Mercedes, but it is nowhere near being King's best.It's a page-turner and you constantly want to know what happens next, which propels you through the story.
There are horror elements in the story, but this is more of a mystery book.
I felt like it was very well crafted by Stephen King.
She is the most interesting character in the story in my opinion.
Jerome is the only character who doesn't really seem broken.
I wanted to know what happened and how it was going to go down.
Stephen is so gifted at writing his story.
I will be going on with the Bill Hodges story.
I feel like this was an excellent story and mysteries aren't really my genre.
(hide spoiler)]The rest of the characters are not great either - from Hodges's neighbor, Jerome, a black teenager who oddly begins speaking in Ebonics when having a dialogue with Hodges (but it's OK, since as Mr. King repeatedly points out he's very smart, and a future student of some ivy league school) through Holly - a slightly odd and neurotic female character, to the Mercedes Killer himself, who is the biggest disappointment of all in the book.
Apparently till now :) It seems I just needed a lighter take from King and I got it in “Mr. Mercedes”.This cop-killer chase is overwhelming and merciless.
I mean people with emotional disorders, the struggle they have and it was good to see that this book showed the different angles to their fates.“Mr. Mercedes” isn’t scary the way “The Shining” was for me, but it’s chilling and believable.This is a tense and synchronized story with lots of manipulation and sentimentality.
While reading “Mr. Mercedes,” I felt like in a dejavu as I heard of such things on the news.
I liked his characters and this book was interesting to read.
The narration was really good by Will Patton but with books like these I tend to get distracted really easy and miss a lot of key points.I was expecting a little bit more excitement when it came to the climax though but I think that might have been my fault a little as I wasn't able to contain myself and I had to skim ahead a little to make sure it was going to end the way I wanted it to.
I was satisfied with the way the book ended though.
Bill Hodges is a great character, he is there watching daytime TV until he gets a letter from the one case that got away whilst he is eating the business end of a revolver he loves and keeps on his couch.So many great scenes - I do not wish to disclose spoilers but the relationship with Brady and his mom, the relationship with Hodges and the sister of a lady who committed suicide following on from taunts from Brady (the Mercedes killer) under the fictional discreet chat room of the Blue Umbrella.
I also loved Hollie, the middle aged 'mentalist' who probably got how far she did with deductions with her mental instability to get into the mind of the Mercedes Killer.
But the letter stirs something in him and, rather than doing what logic and the law both require, he decides to investigate the matter himself.The reader soon learns the name of the killer, Brady Harstfield, and this story is as much his as it is Hodges.
Readers will not soon forget either Bill Hodges or Brady Hartsfield.If the book has a flaw, it rests with the fact that the reader has to buy into Bill's reasons for refusing to turn this matter over to the cops so that the entire police force can be deployed against Brady Hartsfield before a lot more innocent people are killed.

I read so many books with some crazy stuff with ice cream trucks.
They communicate through a chat room and Hodges starts to slowly unravel who this maniac is with the help of some awesome people.
But Jerome cuts Hodges lawn and he's a super smart kid.
Mr. Mercedes steals Mrs. Trelawney's Mercedes and proceeds to run over a large group of people in line for jobs.
Hodges meets Mrs. Trelawney's sister Janey and they get a little something going on.
Well, Jerome was 17/18 but still and some people did get killed.
This book was...hahaha, yeah right, this book hasn't even come out yet!I wish I read it...maybe I can time travel... Stephen King you sly dog you, you have done it once again! This book, no lie, starts off slowly, but you don't care, because his writing it so amazing that you are just entranced by that fact alone. I once again did not read ANYTHING about this book so I went into it blindly and I am glad that I did. I enjoyed the hell out of this book. I found it nearly impossible to set down. It
This book was...hahaha, yeah right, this book hasn't even come out yet!I wish I read it...maybe I can time travel...
I once again did not read ANYTHING about this book so I went into it blindly and I am glad that I did.
It was nice and refreshing to read a crime novel by King.
Which any other time I would have been overly happy about it, but when I finished it I thought it was a stand alone and I loved how it ended just as is...That's not saying that I won't read the next two once they come out.
Me sorprendió bastante, interesante, intrigante y adictivo. Este es un género que he aunque me atrapa bastante he probado muy poco y este autor en particular, no lo había leído antes. Esperaba mucho inicialmente (ya que todos hablan del maestro con gran admiración) luego leí que este no era su mejor libro; sin embargo a mi me ha encantado, no tiene capítulo malo, no tiene escenas al azar ni mucho menos relleno, la historia es espeluznante e interesante a parte iguales. Espero seguir leyendo no solo al autor, sino también este género tan fascinante Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com.co/201...
With Stephen King books, it's usually either a hit or miss with his writing, that is to say, sometimes it's just cheap filler and other times it's totally incredible. Mr. Mercedes luckily is on the incredible side of the spectrum. Reading it had me thinking of films such as The Poughkeepsie Tapes with its shocking crimes and bizarre events. This book is original, riveting and definitely worth reading.
4.5 STARS “People can be stunningly unobservant.” RTCThis book be fucking crazy, yo! Tell us how you really feel, King.Stephen King meets Will Patton:Just look at these beautiful covers.
I bought the book without even reading the summary at the back though, but it's a King novel, why would you need to do that.
Brady is probably the weakest main villain King has written (of his books I've read), but he was still really enjoyable.
But like I said, he was great and humor filled in this novel.My main problem with this novel would be the outcome of the plot.
Great technique by King that I enjoy a lot.Aside from the bad ending and not so thrilling plot, I still found this enjoyable.
4/5 stars, and now on to the next King novel.
This one was terrible!
I can't go any further, and is going into the abandoned book shelf.
The characters have no compelling personalities, the antagonist is vile and seems to have been written by King as one with every bad/evil quality he could think of.
The protagonist is completely unrealistic, as well, and I would venture to say that he's more insane than the bad guy.
While I enjoyed The Colorado Kid and Joyland, both books somewhat outside of his normal genres, King needs to rethink his venture into the world of crime thrillers.
My first Stephen King read! Keeping my fingers crossed for this one!
