https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12177850-a-song-of-ice-and-fire
Missed detail, I found out early on, have a habit of coming back as unexpected answers, so I stifled my occasional desires to skim ahead.I read some reviews by other readers that didn’t think it mattered, what kind of lace bodice a character might be wearing to one meal or meeting, but I found that in a cumulative sense, each detail completed my understanding of each character’s actions and choices.
This isn’t a series to read on your way to work while riding on a subway car or bus.After the third volume, I found myself dreaming of Westeros – the primary setting, as well as the interactions of the characters.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “In the game of thrones, even the humblest pieces can have wills of their own.”   When I first heard about the  Song of Ice and Fire series I assumed it was for supernerds who reside in their mother’s basements and only dare to venture into the daylight in order to L.A.R.P. on the weekends (my apologies to all basement-dwelling-L.A.R.P.E.R.S. for the previous comment). When rumors of the books becoming a series on HBO started, I deci
When rumors of the books becoming a series on HBO started, I decided to give it a shot and read A Game of Thrones.
And at the end of it all, when Martin has killed off people you love and blurred the lines between right and wrong and good and evil, you might find yourself trying to wrap your head around exactly how you ended up routing for bad guys or maybe hoping to hear a little more from the ancillary characters like Dolorous Edd or The Greatjon come Books 6 and 7 (and 8 and 9?????) in hopes of saving your sanity.
Honestly, all I want is for Arya to become the Number One Badass Ever and I will be happy.
Be warned when you start this series: You'll get invested in the handful of characters you start with, but they'll slowly get diluted with side characters (some of which you'll like, but some of which you honestly couldn't care less about--I won't say who fits each category, as I'm sure it's different for everyone).
Days will turn into nights which will turn into days, you still won't be finished with Book Five, and even if you do finish it, it will be with at least some level of concern, because the end--which gets clearer with every book--seems further away than ever.
Yes, the dragons were said to be important for the overall great plot of Targaryens returning to power – but as far as the books reach now, their maximum use was to set the occasional enemy or shepherd boy on fire and otherwise be kept locked up.
If you haven't read this so far and haven't watched the TV series, but would like to, do not expect as much of it as you will have heard people praise it for.
They fell so in love with the archtypes and mythos of their world(s) that they forgot the humans at its core, and quite simply they seemed not to care, as has often been the case with subsequent writers of high fantasy.
Martin puts the people in his world, no matter how awful or broken they may be (and everyone in these books is an awful, broken person at one level or another) at the center of his writing, he makes westeros about them and their struggles, instead of forcing them to revolve around some clever clever tropes that he simply regurgitated from someone else (cough christopher paolini cough).
Usually I’m not much of a fantasy-genre fan, but even I liked these first three books.
The only modern writer who has been able to successfully create a series of this scale in a timely manner without losing its fan base is JK Rowling with the “Harry Potter” books.
There’s supposedly two (maybe even three) more books to go in the Ice and Fire series.
Each of the character-arcs are expertly woven and plot developments continually keep you in the dark whilst simultaneously steadily moving toward what can be some really devastating conclusions.What I love about these books is that every character serves their own purpose, has their own private agendas and are all capable of good and bad to one extent or another...
These novels are extremely character-centric which means the reader really does become emotionally involved with its characters, and believe me I did!As with a lot of other fantasy series' ASOIAF is set during a medival time-frame, a time defined by murder, chivalry, classes and war...
On the other hand, I am continually disappointed in the books.I have not yet seen the vision behind this series; although each POV chapter can "hook" you, I don't believe the author has a clear vision of where he wants his characters to be.
There are some truly horrible characters in this series: folks I have absolutely no connection to; folks I abhor.
NOTHING in these books is "fantasy" except for cursory connections to "wargs" "others" etc...this is truly nothing but historical fiction with a few odds & ends added.
I want to know THIER story---and so have to wade through a bunch of crap to find it out.
On one hand, Martin really does have an amazing ability to tell stories.
But on the other hand, Martin puts A LOT of very explicit sex throughout the books.
While I appreciate that he doesn't focus or dwell on it, it's still a lot more detailed than I care to know.
Were it not for the abundance of this, I'd easily give these books 5 stars and recommend them unreservedly to friends.
I really dislike how much and how explicit the sex is, hence the lower rating and my hesitation to recommend the series to friends.
I did it. I read all 5 books, 5000ish pages. Must read for every fantasy reader.
Well, the books are blockbusterish in some ways - the pseudo-medieval setting, padded out with extended descriptions of secondary people, events and situations.
The vaguely European realm of Westeros is starting to fall apart as the rulers of various statelets vie for the high throne, left vacant by the fall of the 300-year-old Targaryen dynasty.
The female characters are generally forceful, and some are allowed to do really wicked things (though this is softened in the TV series).
All this reworked stuff enriches the tale.The TV series cannot capture the full complexities of the story line, but does bring to life the key characters and scenes beautifully.


I like to see my characters react to a powerful event- I want to hear what they're saying and thinking.
It annoyed me that the evil queen stereotype appeared not once, but twice- with Melisandre as the real power behind Stannis, and Cersei, who seemed to degenerate in the novels from deliciously wicked, to incompetent and foolish as well.But....This is the first fantasy series that I could really love and care about (or, to be honest, actually read).
After five books, the characters and setting seem real.
I didn't give these a poor rating because of the genre; I've always liked fantasy novels. And these are certainly engrossing - I read them straight through. But with each twist, turn, and cliffhanger, it seems more unlikely that this will wrap up in a satisfying way. In fact, it seems like he's just making it up as he goes along. And that's hard to stomach after putting in this much time.
نغمه آتش و یخ - جلد 1 تا 5منتشر شده توسط نشر ویداترجمه از رویا خادم الرضاراهنمای سری کتاب های نغمه آتش و یخ ، منتشر شده توسط نشر ویدا .----+ به همراه لینک صفحه نسخه جدید هر کتاب
I’m not sure what to say in this review, but here goes.This series is excellent if you like:- Extremely slow moving plots- So many characters you can’t tell most of them apart- Watching people you like die- Waiting for the people you hate to die- Seemingly endless and, for the most part, pointless sex scenes, references to genitalia, incest, and so forthLike a lot of people, I got sucked into these books after the HBO started up. I figured, “Hey, why not find out what happens so I won’t be caugh
I’m not sure what to say in this review, but here goes.This series is excellent if you like:-	Extremely slow moving plots-	So many characters you can’t tell most of them apart-	Watching people you like die-	Waiting for the people you hate to die-	Seemingly endless and, for the most part, pointless sex scenes, references to genitalia, incest, and so forthLike a lot of people, I got sucked into these books after the HBO started up.
9.) Reading a series like this or LoTR makes me think that we must be created in the image of a creative God. If one human can create a world so rich and diverse with nothing but his mind, what could an omnipotent being unbounded by time-space do?
2.) I haven't finished A Dance with Dragons, and I'm not sure which characters will be left standing when the book closes.
So few characters seem deeply pure, and while this is disturbing at times, it makes perfect sense why they are who they are.
Tolkien's characters fight World War II--they fight so as not to be conquered.
Each character has so much depth to them and despite only hearing from some of them only a few times each book, I was able to see growth in them all.
Every time a character gets to a situation that might be a good thing for them, something else horrible happens.
Now, I understand that conflict drives a story, but as a reader I need to see the occasional good thing happen for a character I like otherwise it's just depressing.My biggest complaint is that this is not a series of 7 books, but rather one long book broken up into 7 parts.
I loved reading this series and really got into the books after watching the first season on TV...
The series was great, and the 2nd half of each book full of twists and turns, happiness and anger.
but I restrained myself.My main reason for giving this series a good solid 3 stars is because of the heavy description and character development I had to endure for the first 500 pages of each book.
George creates way too many lands and characters which he then spends the first half of every book explaining to us.
Damn the season final for season two was GREAT!
马丁老爷子快填坑！！！！等不住了！！！
I could not put these books down.
Each book had a "stunner" moment and you wonder how the series can go on, yet it does & does so wonderfully.
I wish he wasn't working on the HBO series because he has at least 2-3 books left to wrap up the series, and that is only if he wants to.
The rich, complex storyline which weaves between the books could result in 5+ more books if he wants.
He isn't a fast writer, there is a large gap between two of the books (around 5 years if I remember correctly).
A great fantasy series that will take over your life. The detail and extent to which Martin has gone to create this world will enthrall you on every possible level. Be prepared to shed many tears for fictional characters and become obsessed with the world of Westeros.
I really liked the personality and character development by Martin in these volumes.
I read in a documentary that all the events in this series/books have actually happened sometime someplace in history.
Martin has taken a hell lot of time in building up characters and situations and still we are nowhere close to the ending or I should say we are nowhere close to any progress at all.
As I am still interested in the story and the complex plot lines, I will rather watch the show which has taken over the book series.
But I'll say a few things anyway.My number one criteria for loving (rather than liking) a book is how well it conveys a sense of place- a quality for which contemporary tastes seem to have little patience.
Hurray!Several reviewers have commented that there's too much about extraneous characters, and that the plot might disintegrate in confusion.
In all five books I have found no character or section extraneous.
I'm seriously irritated by the all too common criticism: "I can't tell where it's going." If you knew where it was going why would you bother to read it?It's a genre-expanding book.
I have fallen in love with George RR Martin through these stories, mainly because of my fascination with someone who isn't afraid to push the boundaries of storytelling.
An author would not dare to think of killing off main or favorite characters, but Martin isn't afraid of doing so.
Because of this and other complexities of storytelling he provokes the reader to explore deep and complex feelings about things like good and evil, revenge, and finding the true meaning in one's life.
These are the kinds of deep concepts these stories challenge in us and this is why I love them above any other books.
I was completely pulled in by the depth and intricacy of the world George Martin has created.
The realism of the characters emotions made them easily accessible, despite the medieval time period and this approach greatly contributed to my deep involvement in each character.
This lead to the numerous moments of outrage, gasping with exasperation, horror or relief throughout the series.The use of magic within the backdrop of mingled religion and superstition lures the reader into a sense of reality which George Martin at times whisks from beneath your feet.A truly wonderful series, captivating from the first paragraph.
Book 2 is almost as good, maybe I was just a little frustrated with the peril of all the characters.
Book three is by far the best of the series (so far, still waiting for 6 and 7 to be written).
Book 4 is a little difficult because you are introduced to many new characters, and become frustrated not reading about some of your favorites from the previous books.
Book 5 brings back all your favorite characters, and ties up a lot of interconnections between the different story lines.
Had I known, I may not have read book 5 until book 6 had been published.
I listened to the audiobooks, and I am not sure if I had ended up giving the series a whole 5* if I had had to "read" them.
I definitely loved all the books - but they definitely have some slow parts - especially the Daenerys parts later on got a bit boring actually if you ask me.
And then I tend to forget I was a bit bored as soon as the pace picks up again.So, in my completely subjective view - I did love them all - listened to the whole series out so far in about 3 months time, and always, always wanted more.
This is my number 1 best series/books that I have ever read!Still I can't find the words to describe it other than..
-Beautiful writing-Amazing, complex story-Very deep memorable characters -it has everything; Action, Drama, Romance, Magic, and a lot, lot more!Why have you not read it yet?!.....Well you should.But do not be intimidated by its monstrous size, trust me you wont feel its length ;)And one VERY important word of advice while reading this is; DO NOT google ANYthing about it, or read reviews, or anything like that, because your more than likely to get an awful spoiler, which isn't very nice when your reading books of this size.
