https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8459594-blood-bones-and-butter
I thought Gabrielle Hamilton's memoir was uneven and a bit messy.
Some stories made her sound so cocky and bitter that it was hard to sympathize when her marriage went south.This memoir covers Gabrielle's childhood; her lessons in cooking from her French mother; her early experiences of working in the food service industry; her time in graduate school; her adventure of opening up Prune, her restaurant in New York's East Village; her love affairs and her marriage to an Italian man.
There were also times when I was so frustrated with the author that I considered abandoning the book.
I think it went something like this:Agent to Gabrielle: "Hey, you've had a famous restaurant for a while now and you've never been on the Food Network, Iron Chef, etc., why not hop on the bandwagon and write a memoir?"G.
She just goes on and on and on, and really comes off like a self-absorbed, albeit talented, very full of herself type of woman.
She visits her mother after twenty years only because of the death of her brother, and apparently hates her, even though to me she seems a lot like her mother.I don't know why she titled the book ..."reluctant chef"--it's all she ever did, really, except for getting a masters at U.
The author is aware that her frigid French ballerina mother is fully responsible for her (prepare yourselves 'cause I'm gunna say it) Freudian obssession with fresh and authentic cooking and she illustrates this without making us wallow with her in endless therapy sessions.
This made me want to cook amazing new things and actually clean up afterwards, which I've never enjoyed so much.
The author's description of her own crazy work ethic is sexy enough to inspire me to WANT to scrub the grout behind the fridge.
While Hamilton's recollections of her unconventional childhood and rise to celebrity as the owner of Prune offer up a credible pastiche of MFA-style literary writing, the author's personality is so off-putting that I found the book nearly unreadable.When Hamilton is talking about cooking, or about the restaurant industry and its quirks, she's very nearly engaging--that is, if one can overlook her arty tendency to switch between first-person-past and second-person-present-tense narrative on the turn of a very thinly-sliced wafer of pancetta.
Hamilton's narrative style rests on the piling-on of rich layers of detail, however, yet throughout long passages of the book I found myself distrusting the accuracy of those details.
Is their life interesting enough to warrant a book?
She was also good at analyzing herself, her life’s trajectory, and the food industry.Regarding the second question, I had mixed feelings.
It was the last two stages that I found most interesting – likely because my husband and I enjoy going to chic restaurants and pretending to be gourmands.
Yet I would have appreciated, at least, better allocation of the personal word count: less childhood and more explanation of monumental adult relationships.Ultimately, the best way to gauge one’s reaction to this book is probably to ask a third question.
This is the second book today I've found that I have read and rated and has disappeared from my shelves. This is freaky. There is a thread on it, I've written to support and got nothing back. Obviously I am not deleting all these books. This is so fucking weird and upsetting. I just don't know what to do.The other book is Voluntary Madness: My Year Lost and Found in the Loony Bin
I loved this book.
Loved it.
At first I thought this was going to be another memoir about "how I fell in love with cooking during my already privileged life".
But this one is different.
Gabrielle is real.
She has had an extraordinarily non-traditional and rough upbringing and is unflinchingly honest about it.
So her story is interesting but what I loved most wasn't her unique story but that she is a really, really good writer.
Beautiful, I would say.
So once I got on board and realized that, I slowed down.
I savored this book as I would any delicious meal.
I also rarely give a book one star so I feel I must justify it a little.
So the subtitle is the Inadvertent Education of a Reluctant Chef.
5. Spent an hour driving around brooklyn in a low blood sugar induced rage, yelling at her spouse in front of her small children rather than eat a mediocre mealBy the end of the book, the author struck me as short tempered, self-absorbed, and willing to hurt others on a whim.
And its her life, so she certainly she shouldn't change if she's happy the way she is.
Of course, I write this at the risk of being way too clever, and maybe it is, but I'm saddened that Chef Gabrielle Hamilton wasn't able to hold her memoir together.
Chef Gabrielle has a life-long spiritual affinity with food and service, and tells wonderful, sometimes harrowing stories as she starves her way through Europe, slogs her way through the horrors of tourist trap kitchens, and industrial catering, slugs her way through a creative writing program, and finally finds herself the naive but enthusiastic owner of her own restaurant.
The alternate title for this book: I Have an Italian Husband (But I Totally Didn't Mean To) and Other Reasons Why I'm Totally a Legitimate Chef.At first, Hamilton tries to take the Feminist-Answer-to-Anthony-Bourdain angle: I never wanted to be a chef!
Maybe if you want to feel legitimized as a chef and not a "female" chef, you should take your own advice and focus on what you do rather than your oh-so-unique-womanly-struggles or the fact that you use your family to give yourself permission to cook...it'd probably be a less eye-rolling read, anyway.
She was at loose ends in her life when she was offered a chance at a tiny abandoned restaurant space, and all of her years of experience came together in the successful creation of Prune.Hamilton knows how to spin a narrative, particularly when she has a juicy anecdote that lends itself to embellishment and hyperbole.
She seemed to have abandoned her original intentions for the book, and she ends it without resolution or indication of where her life now stands.
Those who have read the book will forgive me for saying I was left feeling like her entire life was just one big "bone"-doggle.
As a passionate cook who grew up in the restaurant business, as well as a former professional baker, I thoroughly identified with Hamilton's kitchen soul-connection and there were numerous passages that made the hairs on the back of my neck tingle with delighted recognition.Nor was I expecting Hamilton's tough-girl persona.
The restaurant, then the kitchen itself, is the place where Hamilton grows up, becomes an adult, finds her lovers, meets her husband, and lastly, discovers, deepens and diversifies her own passions not just for food, but for literature, writing and connection with others.
The structure is a nightmare, leaping backwards and forwards in time with no warning and darting disconcertingly sideways whenever Hamilton sees something shiny but superfluous in her memory box, and there are run-on sentences that would make Henry James weep with frustration (not that I‘m in any position to throw stones in that regard); but Hamilton’s use of language is extraordinary, vital and juicy and evocative, and the rushing, headlong pace gives her prose a breathlessly immediate, you-are-there impact that’s irresistibly effective, especially at moments of discovery or epiphany for the author, while the general disarray of the narrative is somehow compellingly reflective of how her mind works in a way that’s entirely legitimate for personal memoir.
Many of you may not enjoy this book like I did, but a lot of you in the food service industry, just may!
Yet she was abandoned at her dad’s home and it’s her mom, the source of her love of food and cooking, whom she doesn’t speak with for 20 years.
And the story itself is all over the place with sentences so long that you forget what she’s ranting about.
Besides her two sons, the one person she claims to love most dearly, her sister Melissa, is the one whom she betrays the most, the big reveal that was left to the tabloids rather than this self-billed honest memoir.
Beware the toxic lesbian sister who claims devotion and sleeps with your husband.
I suppose "Blood, Bones, and Butter: The Inadvertent Education of a Reluctant Chef" (which is at least 2 lies) was shorter than "It's not my fault that everything disappoints me: One narcissist's completely predictable culinary path and résumé of failures with a heaping dose of spin"or"Blood, Bones, and Butter: A few mouthwatering meals described in delicious detail served with an amazing amount of whine"
But I found that while Hamilton is skilled at invoking the senses, she is less adept at reconciling various parts of her story.The resulting gaps within the narrative make it a disjointed and frustrating read and impair what is otherwise a very good book.Feeling “disaffected” after 20 years in the kitchen, she leaves to pursue an MFA degree.
How does she feel she can succeed in the competitive New York restaurant scene?Similar omissions appear in the telling of her personal life.
Although I can understand her anger and sense of abandonment at her family’s breakup, I cannot comprehend why those feelings are directed entirely at her mother.
Gabrielle Hamilton's Blood, Bones, and Butter is as good a book I've read about the intersection between eating, cooking, and what we do with the hours in-between.
Even though I'm a huge Anthony Bourdain fan but his work sometimes make me feel like I'm reading through a filter that stylizes the profession into a restaurant version of a movie like Goodfellas.
Blood, Bones, and Butter doesn't engage in culinary industry mythmaking; the book is about how cooking and Hamilton's soul intertwine and how the messy knot of humanity that emerges from the resulting tangle interacts with the rest of the world.
I kept reading mainly because of the gushing praise of Mario Batali and Anthony Bourdain highlighting the cover of this book.
Either they didn't actually read the book, or their frame of reference is sadly narrow.
Or maybe the publisher sent a lot of wine.I had to ask my culinary school graduate friend if all chefs are whiny and crude.
Doesn't want to be a cook, but just keeps at it, even while working on her master's in writing.
Married a guy so he could stay in the country.
If I had paid for it, I would be writing to Batali and insisting he pay me back.
Some Obvious Things I Should Already Know that I Learned from Reading Blood, Bones & Butter: The Inadvertent Education of a Reluctant Chef:1.
(I still don't get why Gabrielle was so mad at her mother, how she made the transition from untrained catering assistant to successful chef/restaurant owner, what the heck was up with her marriage, etc.)3.
Your blood sugar can run dangerously low and you'll still turn your nose up at a restaurant that doesn't meet your standards, making everyone around you crazy in the process (for God's sake, just order some french fries or something and the heck with it!).5.
Blood, Bones, and Butter: The Inadvertent Education of a Reluctant Chef tells the story of Gabrielle Hamilton's, owner of Prune Restaurant in NYC, dysfunctional childhood and the oasis she stumbled upon through cooking.I experienced a jumble of emotions while reading this book.
Perhaps, because of wading knee-deep in relational dysfunction in this book, I didn't find it terribly entertaining but depressing.
I'm not sure if it was for effect or not, but by the end of the book it was irritating.Some of the things I appreciated were some funny anecdotes, Gabrielle's candidness and her ambition for both parenting and cooking.
I felt compelled to read this and was interested, but I was irritated by the author.
She struck me as really abrasive and strident and I just didn't really like her.
I was interested in the chapters of her early years, and how she came to be a chef and her interest in writing.
Her later chapters made me want to visit Italy.
But I kept on wondering if I would like her if I met her in person.
I wondered if we would get along.Also, I found her green card marriage to be really weird, and had a hard time wrapping my head around that one.
I have to say that was a real page-turner for me. I grew so attached to the people in this memoir that i started missing them long before the book was over. It's one of those books that you just don't want to end.
On the one hand, I found myself engaged while reading, and at one point it had me dying for a sandwich from an Italian deli.
On the other hand, the author is intensely unlikeable, and her memoir had some really glaring holes in it.I get that this wasn't necessarily about her romantic life, but I want to know how the following happened: "I mostly like women, which is why my marriage to a man who needed a green card was safe except that I really wanted him to love me.
I thought this was a memoir I would really enjoy.
Unfortunately, for the most part I did not.
Ms Hamilton's unconventional childhood and culinary education were interesting.Opening and running a successful restaurant is no easy feat.
And she was brutally honest about all that it entails.
However, her overall sense of superiority quickly became off putting and tedious.
She bogged me down in the minutia of her personal life.
I found nothing for her to be proud of let alone crow about as she details her criminal activity as a young adult.
A disappointment.
I skimmed the last 30 pages or so, I was so completely bored and sick of Hamilton.Here's the thing, and I admit this freely: I was interested in this book because a year or two ago I read an interview with her from Anthony Bourdain in his collection of writing ("The Nasty Bits").
I think her sister working at Saveur had something to do with it, but as I said, her writing style is so vague I had trouble getting what she was trying to say in terms of actual plots, as she was much more occupied with saying it in an artsy-fartsy fashion.I could go on and on about this, but it'd end up like her memoir.
If you like odd-ball, quirky families that produce eccentric, talented, opinionated people...than read this book!
A young women living in a house with no media influences with a French Mom and an artist Dad raise this lovely lady, Gabrielle, who knows what it means to live, eat and create.She shares all sorts of life experience coupled with her passion for cooking...For me, this is quintessential foodie reading.
I love a good story, a talented writer and the distraction of someone cooking constantly.
Oh yeah, they spend a lot of time in a villa in Italy with her hubby's extended Italian family.Read it.
And now I want to have a dinner party.
This book made me love food even more. And I already love food quite a lot.
i was looking forward to getting the book from the library & savoring the piece i had read again, & hopefully spending 300 pages enjoying all kinds of beautiful, descriptive language about food, cooking, & tough ladies.
hamilton belabors the most tedious stories & completely glosses over stories that actually sound like they might be interesting.she also seems to write with the assumption that the reader will form certain perceptions of her, & then she attempts to smash those perceptions in a very off-putting manner.
hamilton repeats the same sentence & phrases again & again, & it seems less like a literary device than it appears that she just forgot that she already used a certain memorable string of words a few pages earlier.
