https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13547188-lone-wolf
Let me start by saying, I love Jodi Picoult's novels.
For the most part, you would never be able to tell they are written so quickly.However, Lone Wolf was the exception.
Not only was this book not enjoyable, it was physically painful to read.
The characters were underdeveloped, the voices stagnant, and the plot unrealistic.
One of my favorite things about reading a novel by Picoult is her use of voice.
In this novel however, the voices of each character were so similar as to be indistinguishable from one another.
But I do love other novels by Jodi Picoult and would recommend many of them.
To be honest though, I thought the same when I read the excerpt Jodi Picoult published months (maybe even a year) ago on her website.
I guess the main problem with the book is that, unlike her previous books, the characters in "Lone Wolf" are boring and stale.
Jodi Picoult's books are known for their intricate plots and well-developed characters.
The characters in "Lone Wolf" are hardly developed.
For example, Picoult gives a little information for the character of Helen Bedd.
If Helen Bedd was given more of a background and role in the story, she wouldn't be such a throw-away character.

Oh, my god, this book is so amazing it made me want to cry at the end of this book I really loved this book
That man is Luke Warren, a passionate zoologist, who had put his "human" life on hold and went to live among the wolves in the wild.
Seventeen-year-old Cara, figured in the same accident as her father, but escaped with only minor injuries.The story revolves around the difficult decisions that family members must wrestle with, in their lives together, and their future together.
60 (page may change), ARC of Lone Wolf Picoult has a tender way of drawing parallelisms between wolves and humans - insights about family, loyalty, and other distinctly traits we come to think as human - which made me wonder at how complicated we've made our lives.
I still believed.With these last two books, though, my belief is fading.You've been relegated to being an author I put on reserve at the library.I still get excited, and hopeful, but in the end I'm usually just glad I didn't spend twenty-five bucks for the read.I miss you, Jodi, and I think you've still got it.
I don't know enough about wolves to have an opinion on this issue.This is not a book I would want to pick up and read again.
First, why would a woman want to be with a guy like that, let alone marry him, have kids with him and then stay with him after he left for two years to go be with the wolves?
I only liked this book for Jodi Picoult's excellent writing and the interesting information about people being brain dead vs.
It is sad that I felt like that too because there were very important family issues and topics in this book that should have mattered but didn't because of the awful characters.I did like how ironic it was that a guy who preferred to be with the wolves because they had to deal with real issues such as life and death rather than deciding what cereal you want for breakfast is himself stuck between life and death in a coma.
Whilst I haven't read them all, I've read most of Jodi Picoult's novels and I've really enjoyed them, giving her a firm place in my favourite authors.
I was extremely impressed with how Picoult formed the story - the recollections of Luke's time living with wolves worked extremely well in parallelling the events that were happening in the present.
Even after completing the book, I am still torn on my thoughts regarding Luke, but I think that it's a good thing that the author still has me thinking, even after I've finished reading.All of the characters that we are introduced to are deeply complex and have had so many experiences that have shaped and affected them.
You ask yourself so many questions about life, death, family, love, hate, and betrayal along with loyalty.
I could not put this book down but had to for emotional stability lol.
When I came back to it today, I read it nonstop until the end.
I believe there are so many dynamics to family and relationships that we do not contemplate into faced with them head on because they make us uncomfortable and force us to ask questions about people we love and ourselves that we just would rather not.
Overall, a great story with a strong emotional feel.
Highly enjoyed this reading experience!
Αυτό το βιβλίο συνδυάζει τις ανθρώπινες σχέσεις με μια αγέλη λύκων.Χρειάστηκα λίγο χρόνο μέχρι να καταλάβω την ιστορία και ειδικότερα την σύνδεση με τους λύκους αλλά εξελίχθηκε πολύ καλό.Ευτυχώς που το συνέχισα :P
I learned a lot about wolves, and how they live, and how that pertains to how we live, our very character as humans; what makes us different and remarkable, and what makes the animals so wonderful in their own right.
And are we so far from the animals in behavior?
Or is it just our interpretations of or reasons for the behaviors that are different?
It's a book about love, animals, and how humans try to make their way in a world not all that far removed from our animal companions on this earth.Well worth reading.
Well I was always going to love this, being a book about wild animals and a man who struggles to find a balance between a life with them and a life with humans.
We would do well to learn much more from our fellow earthlings - who never act in spite, never take more than they need, share with every member of their pack, are not driven by ego, have respect and reverence for other packs, and who understand the intrinsic value of every player in their team.
My greatest struggle in studying animal behaviour, is the underlying principle that humans have evolved to something 'grander'.
Luke Warren é um homem com uma paixão imensa pelos lobos, levada ao ponto de, a certa altura da sua vida, ter ido viver com uma alcateia selvagem durante dois anos, deixando para segundo plano a mulher e os dois filhos.
É em redor deste drama familiar que a narrativa gira, avançando suportada pelos pontos de vista das personagens principais, incluindo os de Luke, que narram as partes principais da sua vida até ter ocorrido o acidente.
Sempre que chegamos aos pontos de vista de Luke, entramos no fascinante mundo dos lobos, da forma como vivem em sociedade e das regras existentes numa alcateia.
How a secret can destroy a family and like so many other secrets can cause almost irreparable damage.
Luke, a naturalist obsessed with wolves and lives mainly for them, after an accident with her daughter Cara, he is in a coma.
He also has a son who cut ties six years ago and that caused his divorce.
An interesting and moving story that is being told by the vision of the various characters and the Luke always making the comparison between human and the wolves behavior.
The first book I read by this author is Picture Perfect and I was very disappointed because I have heard so much about the author however I was not deterred hoping that another of her book will tell me much about her hence this book.This is an interesting family story and the subject matter is an uncommon one but the author managed to weave a family dilemma and how wolves and it's pack lives into a superb novel,This book made me to understand more about wolves and how organized they are including their sensitivity towards smell...I give this 4 stars.
This book was a painful but somehow therapeutic read.
It hit me so close to home but what I liked the most about it is how genuine everything felt from the visits to the ICU, the meetings with the doctors, and the pain of the uncertainty of a parent's recovery.
The grief she felt was so real it brought me back to the times I was in the ICU myself.
This book is special in that I literally understood how these characters felt so much that I was empathizing rather than sympathizing.
Of the 5 or so characters we met, I felt only emotionally invested in two of them (Luke and Joe) and only minimally at best.
In past novels by Jodi she has done such a good job at making you feel something for the characters that you are emotionally invested in their futures and the outcomes of their situations.
It felt very out of place for his character, so Jodi either did a terrible job showing us who Luke really was, or she just stuck it in there for the shock value.
Mais uma vez a escritora não desilude com mais um livro onde um dilema nos faz ver os 2 lados da questão. Se no inicio podemos tomamos partido de um dos lados, ao longo do livro ficamos sempre balançados com os sentimentos e emoções descritos. E em jeito de bónus, ficamos a conhecer melhor a vida dos lobos, confesso que pouco ou nada sabia sobre estes animais, pelo menos menos com tanto pormenor
Dos livros mais recentes de Jodi Picoult, este foi aquele que sempre chamou mais a minha atenção. E mereceu-a!Primeiro, pela dinâmica entre lobos e humanos.Segundo, porque consegui identificar-me com Edward, Cara e Luke por três razões diferentes mas muito distintas.Terceiro, por todas as questões médicas e legais. Por último, acabou como deveria ter acabado, e nem precisava daquele epílogo um pouco “emprestado” do seu outro livro Em troca de um coração.Por essa altura, acho que tudo o que restava para dizer, já tinha sido dito.
The emotional battle will reveal the secrets of the broken family as the siblings each seek to honour their father in their own ways.The story of Lone Wolf unfolds through alternating chapters from the perspectives of the main characters, Luke, his children Edward and Cara, ex wife Georgie and briefly, Helen, the court appointed Public Guardian.
She wants to support both Cara and Edward but the decision they face doesn't allow her to.While a large part of the novel concerns the issues of the withdrawal of life support, organ donation and medical guardianship it is also about who Luke and his wolves, though Luke remains unconscious during the entire book.
Edward and Cara's conflicting attitudes toward their father makes the decision difficult, and the things that they will do to get what they want could tear their family apart forever.Staying true to her style, Picoult creates another well-written novel centered around a controversial issue that involves a tension-filled court case.
I had never put much thought into life support and vegetative states before reading this book - at least not as much as I do other issues - but Picoult does a good job balancing the medical jargon with simpler terms that the average reader will understand.
A painful experience to one, brings forward similar pain in the other, and that is what happens in this book.Luke Warren transcends from human existence into 'wolfdom', leaving his real family behind.
When he is involved in a serious accident with his daughter, Cara, and ends up in a vegetative state, the divided family's pot of secrets and hurts gets cooking.
But in the end I am glad I persisted and will read this author again, for sure.
Jodi Picoult has reached a new level with her new book, Lone Wolf.
This book dragged me into a story, that I was uncertain about and before I knew it I was firmly engrossed.
Luke Warren, the main character, was a man who lived life within his own boundaries.
This is not so much a story about life after severe and traumatic brain injury.
This is not so much a story about anyone's rights to life and death.
It is a story of a family torn apart by a man with all his glories and failings.
Prepare not to breathe.
When brilliant naturist Luke is horrifically injured in a car accident leaving him in a vegetative state, his family are left to make decisions for him, including the most serious of all - should he continue live artificially or should he die?
While their mother and lawyer stepfather try to support each party equally, ultimately this difficult situation causes friction and family tensions surface.As with most Picoult novels I've read, I thoroughly enjoyed this.
It shines light on a difficult topic - when does life begin and when does death start?
I was forced to consider my own beliefs on artificially continuing life as opposed to allowing someone a peaceful death.
A new Jodi Picoult novel. Let's go through the Jodi Picoult checklist, shall we?Family Drama? Check!Courtroom scenes? Check!Twist Ending? Check!Lots of angst? Check!Oddly named characters? Check!Told from different perspectives? Check!Social issue? Check!This book really wasn't great. I didn't care about the wolves, nor the family, and the last 100 pages made me just skip to the end, which wasn't impressive.
Where does Jodi Picoult comes up with these ideas? So we have a man who practically believes he's a wolf and his two children in a legal battle over his brain dead state. Very intriguing and held my interest the entire way through.
O lar é apenas um local de passagem para Luke para tomar um duche, mudar de roupa ou fazer uma refeição ocasional, não sendo portanto de estranhar que a família acabe por se desintegrar.Com Luke aprendemos que, para os lobos, a "família" é tudo - cada membro da matilha deve desempenhar o seu papel de forma a garantir a segurança colectiva, obedecendo a um sistema hierárquico muito bem definido que lhes permite, ainda assim, manter a individualidade.
I hadn’t known about this book and I wasn’t necessarily currently in the mood to read another book by this author, but I’m so glad I read this one.I love wolves so I was particularly interested in this book.
I’m also interested in the right to die (which I’ve been engaged in conversation about at another one of my book reviews), quality of life, decisions about prolonging life, organ donation, etc.
I love the lone wolf theme throughout and the information about lone wolves in the wild.I didn’t appreciate her brief passage re rights activists.
I’m definitely irked at that tiny part of the book!
Cara and her father were in a car accident.
Cara doesn't want that to happen.
Her brother, Edward, on the other hand would like to do what his father wished him to do.
Cara is angry with him because Edward left them years ago.
Her brother didn't feel he would be accepted by his own father.
Yes, I understand that she wants to save her father, but that doesn't mean she has to act like a spoiled brat.
Edward knew what his father wanted.
Luke had told him if this ever happened to take him off of life support.
If I didn't do that, I am not sure I would have finished it as the wolf bits slowed it down and were boring.Luke, although in a coma throughout the book, was a despicable, self-centred ass in all the flashbacks and I kept hoping he would just die and stop the trauma it was causing his family.
Mind you, Luke got all his wisdom from the wolves and we all know how even Red Riding Hood and the three little pigs got the better of the wolf.What made me keep reading this book, was because I really wanted to find out why Edward ran away to Thailand and what the true story was that caused Luke and Cara's car accident.
