https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1142457.Clarence_Darrow_for_the_Defense
This book has been out of print and my parents bought me a used copy. My father said this was one book that influenced his choice of career and it did the same for me. Stone has a way of writing as if he was in his subjects' heads.
I read this book when I was in my early teens and was deeply impressed by Clarence Darrow's work as a lawyer and advocate for social justice. It's a terrific story that I highly recommend to anyone.
I had a lot to learn in the legal arena from Darrow's life and ideologies.
Darrow, a united states attorney and pitted one of the best criminal Lawyers in Chicago and by extension America.
He build his name by defending the working class who turned against him after settling tge McNaras case with the state.
However, Darrows insight and the ability to get the best for his clients is at the center of this decision.
He believed that everybody deserved to be represented by an attorney.
As an attorney he never relied so much on legal technicalities but the facts of a case.
When I think of Darrow, the phrase that springs to me is ‘hero for the downtrodden, hero for the downtrodden…’ Sometimes he harkens an image like Christ or an image of Lincoln or Socrates or Emerson or whomever's life is denoted upon a crusade for humble truth.
He was a white man who fought for blacks, a lawyer who fought against corporations, a purveyor of justice who fought for life imprisonment over the death penalty, and an agnostic who crusaded for sense over dictation.
Defender of the working man, African Americans, open thought and discussion, and life long opponent of the death penalty, he was the greatest orator of his time, and one of the best minds.
Outstanding lecturer, debater, and legal mind, he was one of the greatest Americans in history, and this book on his life aptly illustrates a man whom I was first introduced to by the movie Inherit the Wind, with Spencer Tracey acting as Darrow, Frederich March as William Jennings Bryant, and the Scopes "monkey" trial was brought to life.
I learned much not only about Darrow, but about American history.
This took me forever to read. When I force myself to read something because it's "good for me," I usually don't remember it very well. I fear that this fits into that category. Now, that I know more about that era and the strife that lead to litigation, maybe I'd enjoy the book more.p 7: "The end of wisdom is the fear of God; the beginning of wisdom is doubt."
I recall checking this out of the city library in my youth when I aspired to be an attorney like Darrow, who could hold the rapt attention of a courtroom for hours without relying on notes (using only run-on sentences like this one, I'm sure).A fitting book #500 for my list!
What an amazing, empathetic, brilliant man. If ever I needed my human rights protected, I would want Clarence Darrow...For the Defense!
Might be more rewarding to read some of Darrow's own writings to get the flavor of his personality.
After reading this bio, he might still be an enigma to you.
For a defense lawyer, Darrow is pretty good, but the things he is defending are not always good or easy to resolve.
When his own integrity is put in question all he can do is what he has been doing all along in his career, fight for the underdog.
Not a very good place to be standing in.
Unless you're a big fight fan, it gets a little tedious going round by round with him.
This book is so vintage, it fell apart while I was reading it! Loved the language - there are some great quotes in here both by the author and the subject, Clarence Darrow. A fascinating, wishful dinner party would include sitting down at a table with Ayn Rand, Clarence Darrow, and maybe an elderly Fidel Castro, just for kicks. All three had such strong opinions on the individual self and a person's role in society, and how a society as a whole should operate.
It makes all the sense in the world to me that I enjoy a biography of one of the men who played a major role in perhaps my favorite event in American history, the Scopes Monkey Trial. However, Irving Stone's writing must also come into play here, and I can find no fault with it.
Read it a long time ago. I think I enjoyed it. I'd probably appreciate it more now that I have more background.
Great book about a great man.
Darrow's D'arrow :) Great true legal story.
I got it for a quarter from a thrift store in Spokane because I talk a little about Darrow every year when we read Witness as a class.
I think this will be a slowburn read between other stuff for the next weeks.Finished: I learned a lot about Darrow's career and philosophies.
I got a lot of info about the Leopold and Loeb case which will be very helpful.Darrow is a person who I differ with on many, many philosophical points and even lifestyle choices, but I can still admire his deep compassion and love for humanity.
Irving Stone is detailed and thorough.
Some of the story dragged because of that, but, it isn't a problem for me as I know when it is time to skim!
Stone reveals Darrow's gift for argument and persuasion.
As a trial lawyer myself, I had to reflect on how much more effective his approach was than my own.
He didn't get bogged down in the legal details!!
Stone seems to come down on the side that thought he was not guilty, but I couldn't be sure.
Darrow sacrificed much of his health, energy, and financial prosperity because of his drive to help the downtrodden and powerless.
The seven day/70 hour work week.
A liberal icon, Clarence Darrow should have a more pronounced position in American history if only for his involvement in the labor movement.
The Leopold-Loeb trial is a watershed case in terms of the insanity plea and the capital punishment issue.
The Scopes Monkey Trial is important, particularly when it comes to academic freedom for teachers.
The research is prodigious; but at almost 600 pages, way too much detail.
In the many union vs management trials, the author sometimes brings in two or three new characters per page.
That's my standard complaint: Keep your list of important players down to 50.
An amazing subject taken up by a talented writer.
Suffers only in comparison to 'The Agony and the Ecstasy' about Michelangelo, another of his novels which just went beyond this one, not in attention to detail or scope of influence, but simply in its immersive quality.
If I had one complaint about this novel it is the sometimes disjointed timeline, for which it is hard to fault the author when his subject didn't exactly give himself to only one cause at a time, but it did occasionally break the flow of reading that was expected after my earlier experience with Stone.
In many ways this rating is more for Darrow than the book itself.
I loved this book, but mostly because I have been an admirer of Darrow, and most of what I believed he stood for, for a long time.
It is VERY obvious in every page of this book that Stone has the utmost respect for Clarence Darrow and his life.
That having been said, the book did fill out a lot that I never knew about Darrow, and he remains a man I would very much liked to have met.
A surprisingly engaging and readable book about a lawyer whose story touched almost every social, political and philsophic struggle that was played out in the courts over a 40-year span from the late 19th century into the 20th. Typically, Stone's rhapsodizing gets a little florid and repetitive a little too often; still, it's a very interesting story, generally well-told, and surely worth reading if only for the insights it offers into American history. It also is a good reminder of how much of our social progress we owe to the energy and courage of Clarence Darrow.
A superb account of the life and struggle of Clarence Darrow. Clarence Darrow is one of the greatest American trial lawyers who defended the poor and the oppressed. His life is a testimony to the greatness of an advocate of freedom and justice. Only Irving Stone could give justice to the story of this great advocate. Irving Stone used his pen to give color to the life and times of Clarence Darrow. Excellent read!
I absolutely adored this book. The style of writing differed from styles I usually read, but was "hooked" by page 15. I loved the character(s). Lots is written about this American attorney and legion, so it is fun too look up material while reading, and watch films based on Darrow's character. What an excellent book! I am so glad someone gave me a copy!
Interesting for the historical view, and, of course, if you are interested in that old rascally lawyer guy. Good to get a biography where the writer isn't afraid to be partisan, along political lines. We all know who I.F. Stone was. I don't think his sympathetic views distort the biography much, but it is loads better than a hostile writer.
Here is the historical fiction novel that established historical fiction as good history. This is the story of the great Clarence Darrow. An amazing man and story. It is a mesmerizing story that gives context to the many of the issues that plague and gridlock our government, courts and society today. Capital punishment, religion, fundamentalism, liberty, freedom and more.
Very interesting bio of the man known best for his defense in the Scopes monkey trial. He was much more than that and his efforts for the common man over the years is very inspiring. Not the easiest read in the world, and you can tell Stone adored him, but well worth the effort in my opinion.
Clarence Darrow had a knack for being at the center of some of the most critical legal battles in labor and civil rights. The book was written in 1940, so the prose occasionally seems dated. Still, well worth reading.
In some ways it reads like a book written for middle school students, but I walked away from feeling like I knew all the I always wanted to know about Clarence Darrow.
A disapointment!
Clarence Darrow was my hero when I was a kid. It's a great tale of a very remarkable lawyer - I wish I knew more about him now so I could probably evaluate how honest it is to the facts.
a 5 star book about a 5 star American Hero
