https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270067.A_Pocket_for_Corduroy
I wish my only dilemma in life was wanting a pocket.
Lovable Corduroy Bear realizes his overalls don't have a pocket. On a mission to find something that would make a suitable pocket, he gets left in a laudromat over night. Nice sequel to the first.
To check out my review: http://dancinginth3dark.blogspot.com  I wish this book was never written.  The entire time as I was reading this book I kept having this thought that Corduroy is going to turn into Chucky and kill the little girl. This bear creeps me out and this is meant for children. I believe the author could have written Corduroy as a standalone and you wouldn't hear any complaints for a sequel.We meet Corduroy again and he speaks like it is no big deal that a stuffed teddy bear can s
So he gets off the chair and explores other peoples clothes to find fabric to make a pocket.The girl starts to panic trying to find Corduroy but no luck because the laundromat is going to close soon and her mother has a zero tolerance for this type of dilemma and they leave the store and Corduroy is left behind inside for the night.
Come the next day the girl returns and finds him and they live happily ever after as she sews a pocket for Corduroy.Can I mention again how creepy and weird it is that the girl accepts a talking teddy bear like it is no big deal?
This is basically a nightmare scenario.
In the first - written in the '60s -- an elegant black woman and her daughter shop in a Manhattan department store.
The sequel was written about ten years later, and now Lisa's mother -- still elegant -- has traded out her A-line dress for bell bottoms and the launder mat where mother and daughter go to wash clothes is populated by bearded artists in berets.
The artist -- perhaps a little foolish with his sketches of wet laundry -- thoughtfully rescues Corduroy and gently buttons him back into his overalls again.
And the launder mat owner greets Lisa in Spanish and helps restore her lost bear.
A timeless classic from Don Freeman, one of my favorite children's authors.The plot is the simple story of a little girl going to the laundromat with her mother. She brings her bear, Corduroy, who bored, decides to explore. He ends up getting left behind and spends the night at the laundromat. Small children have such a strong sense of wonder that a stuffed bear getting stuck in a laundromat over night is high adventure. I know because I remember loving this book when I was very young.
I wasn't as drawn to the character of Corduroy.
This story encourages us to look for beauty in the world around us and let it inspire you.
If you don't notice it in the colors and textures or in the the beauty of the how the characters are drawn in relation to each other, the artist comes right out and says it, " This would make a wonderful painting!...I can hardly wait to get back to my studio." Corduroy is a creative thinker and finds inspiration in laundry soap, bags of wash and laundry baskets.
I don't know how many times I have read this book but it is probably the best book I have ever received (along with Are You My Mother).
In fact, this is the first book I ever read.
I remember the day my kindergarten teacher handed everyone a copy of the book, a pair of scissors and a glue stick.
In retrospect, they probably shouldn't have given children a book and scissors at the same time, but no matter.
(I also still have that pair of scissors and only recently threw away the glue stick).
One day while at the laundromat, teddy bear Corduroy decides he needs a pocket. His search for one introduces him to some strange new things. Can he find a pocket? Will Lisa be able to find him?Even as a kid, I liked this book more than Corduroy’s first adventure. I think it’s because of the creativity. We know what Corduroy finds along his way, but his explanations for them are creative, logical, and fun. The illustrations capture the book perfectly, and will please kids and parents alike. This is one all ages can enjoy.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
This sequel is as adorable as its predecessor and another one of my favorites when I was growing up!
I had to have a bear just like Corduroy.
At that time, there wasn’t any merchandise.
So my mom bought me a bear and sewed green corduroy overalls for him.
Then when I read this book, my Corduroy needed a purple pocket.
I remember waking up one Christmas morning to find that my mom had made him a purple pocket.
Needless to say, I was thrilled!
And yes, I still have my Corduroy!Was it worth reading?
Yes.Would I read it again?
Yes!
I always wondered why the little stuffed Corduroy bears have those purple pockets, and now I know! In this book, Lisa and her mother take Corduroy to the laundromat where the curious bear wanders off and gets lost. When Lisa finds him, he tells her he wants a pocket, and she promptly obliges by sewing on a purple one.
This was my favorite book when I was a child. Our library had two copies and I would return one and run to the shelves to get the other. The library started hiding a copy for me so there would always be one available to me, otherwise there were tears. Now I own two copies. And a bear.
One day Lisa and her mother go the laundromat and Corduroy goes to because Lisa brings him everywhere.
When doing their laundry, Corduroy hears Lisa'a mother asking her to check her pockets before they put her clothes in the wash.
Lisa become very worried about Corduroy and her mother assures her that they will look for him in the morning.
In the morning the man who works at the laundromat finds Corduroy in a basket of clothes.
That same morning Lisa and her mother come looking for Corduroy and the man give him back to Lisa.
Another theme that could be studied is optimism and how to be creative in any situation you might find yourself in.Star Rating: 5 starsPersonal Response: I really enjoyed this book.
I think this book could be enjoyed by young children and readers up to the first grade.
It is a book definitely written for younger audiences, but can truly put a smile on any reader's face - as it did on mine.Why I Recommend this Book: I recommend this book, because it reminds us that even old children's books can still be esteemed as good literature and cultivate good conversation in the classroom today.
This story of the classic character, Corduroy, wanting a pocket.
Corduroy gets left at the laundromat after Corduroy goes looking for fabric to make himself a pocket.
Corduroy gets stuck inside an artist's laundry bag and the artists washes and dries his clothes for him.
Afterwards, the laundromat closes and Corduroy falls asleep.
She then gives Corduroy a pocket and a card with his name on it.
This book was not a favorite of mine because I felt the pictures told the story a little better than the words.
I also felt this book was a bit repetitive and could have been better.
A Pocket for Corduroy is about a teddy bear that wants a pocket.
He goes to the laundromat with his owner, but eventually loses his owner and explores the laundromat on his own.
Corduroy is left their overnight and plays in what he thinks is snow and sleeps in what he thinks is a cage.
I think the main theme of this book is that if you set your mind to something, you can achieve it.
I have always loved Corduroy books since I was young.
I think these stories are cute short stories for little kids to read.
Corduroy is a classic childhood story and there are many reasons for that, but one I thought of was because of how he comes to life. Kids love to play pretend with their toys and it's what make this books a staple bedtime story because it toys with their imagination. This book also is simple and children can follow along when reading with their parents or teachers. The illustrations in the book are bright and vivid and give the book a friendly feel to it.
First sentence: Late one summer afternoon Lisa and her mother took their laundry to the laundromat.
Premise/plot: Corduroy is "lost" at the laundromat when he leaves the chair Lisa placed him in, and goes off in search of something to make a pocket out of.
Though his overalls do come off!
Corduroy has a unique way of seeing the world--and his take on laundry baskets and soap flakes is interesting.
Will he get a pocket at last?My thoughts: I never knew about this one until I was searching for books published in 1978.
I really enjoyed it overall.
A pocket for Corduroy is the next book after Corduroy. Personally I have never heard of this book until now. In my opinion it is not as good as the first, however, the images are still enjoyable and Corduroy is still a mischievous bear. Instead of being on a mission for a missing button he is now looking for a pocket.
Corduroy ends up getting left behind at the laundromat because he wanders away looking for something with which to make a pocket. Lisa finds him the next day and makes him a pocket and a card with his name on it to go into the pocket.
This was one of my favorite books as a child! I even remember watching a play done at the local arts and drama high school based off of this book. Absolutely timeless, i still remember six year old me falling in love with the adorable bear!
This book was simple and cute with a lot of underlying messages that relate to kids in and out of a classroom. the story is very sweet and engaging and the pictures are very cute and nice to look at. Good read.
Fantasy. Grades K-2. This book is about a little bear who wants a pocket for his overalls, but doesn’t just ask the girl who owns him and gets himself into a little predicament. This book is a good book for students to make predictions about what Corduroy will do nexts.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A classic! An enjoyable story that leaves kids in "suspense."From Schaeffer's
Corduroy wanders away and gets left in a laundromat. Although some elements seem slightly dated, such as some of the stereotypes, this story is more pleasant than most kids books.
Genre: Children's Lit / FictionUnique Feature: This is the second book in the series of Corduroy books, and is an ultimate favorite of the students.Grade levels suggested K-3
Fantastic after reading Corduroy first!
Day 9 Book Advent Calendar 2018
Corduroy's journey. The book isn't really about his pocket until the very end.
