https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50807.Mister_God_This_is_Anna
So I am going to take my "mirror book" and create an endlessly repeating circle of stars.
Anna deserves no less.This is a spiritual and philosophical book, but it is not tied into religion.
This became obvious when the little nagging voice in my head insisted that the relationship between Fynn and Anna was odd.
Anna and Fynn loved each other.
It's a sign of how jaded I've become that I doubted the purity of that feeling for even a moment.This book is like night-time: "It stretches your soul right out to the stars.
Over the next several years the girl, whom they call Anna, fills his life with wonder and his mind with her ideas about "Mister God".
How, I wondered, could this young man have the quantity of idle time he appears to spend with this girl AND work AND study math and science AND read philosophy and classics to the extent he says he does.
Searching the word "Fynn", I found: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mister_G...Searching the phrase "Mister God, This is Anna", I found: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mister_G...
The combination of the two produces some amazing theories about metaphysics and Christianity.This is by no means a sentimental, trite, or simple story, as the title might suggest to today's reader.
Книгата ми беше препоръчана от приятел, на който тя е от любимите книги, с уговорката, че е променила перспективите му, и след като я прочетох се борих цели десет минути с дилемата, че много ми се искаше да я харесам заради него и факта, че страстно я намразих.
За мен "Мистър Бог, тук е Ана" е изградена изцяло от сантиментални трикове, с които автора се опитва да я направи по-задълбочена, отколкото е всъщност.
Ана е най-ужасната Мери Сю (идеализиран и привидно перфектен образ на измислен герой, който е в центъра на вниманието и обичан от всички), която съм засичала.
Другото нещо, което ме дразнеше постоянно беше връзката между Ана и Фин.
This book changed my entire world, my entire life. Its explanation and insight into what God is, is a completely different outlook onto a topic as old as humanity. It has a refreshing way of describing things, but without the various pretenses that most authors seem to have. Honest writing is a really rare find nowadays but this book, despite convention, remains, even if untrue, honest.
As Fynn said of her, "this was no casual knowing; it required total application." Anna may have been young but she was an intelligent, lively, precocious chatterbox who had an outlook on life which could completely transform your understanding of life and make you think "of course it is that simple!" One of the things about Anna is the incredible relationship she had with 'Mister God'.
He created rest!Anna dies before she even reaches her eighth birthday and yet at the end of the book I put it down with a sense of feeling full, of wonder and of gratitude for the life she lived and the impact she made.
The girl lives with them over the next three years and the "action", in so far as it happens (and not much of it does) is basically just to give context for Fynn and Anna's conversations about life and the nature of God. Anna sees God as her mentor and personal teacher but the church and Scripture don't factor in.
Anna teaches Fynn that God is in everyone and everyone is in God. As I mentioned, the book is fairly well written but the content is really just a hybrid form of pantheistic universalism.
Keine Bewertung, da die Geschichte anscheinend auf wahrer Begebenheit beruht.Ganz am Anfang steht: "Anna und Fynn haben wirklich gelebt"
The first edition included the tale of how the book's manuscript came into the hands of the publisher and of a meeting with "Fynn," the book's author; all subsequent editions have omitted it.Anna had an intimate relationship with "Mister God," and searched for him in all things.Everything and everyone in creation was evidence for Anna that God existed, that he wasa gentleman, and that he loved people in ways they could not possible comprehend.
Her ideasresonate with the child inside me - her fearless trust, her refusal to accept adultexplanations based on fear, her spirit afire with love of God. I have probably givenaway 25 or more copies of this book; people are often daunted by the explanations in thelanguage of math and mechanics.
Schade ist - was man von Anfang an weiß, dass Anna nicht alt wird und das sie nur ganze zwei Jahre, glaube ich, bei Fynn lebt.
Von der kleinen Anna kann jeder noch etwas lernen und auch, wenn man mit Gott und dem Christentum so gar nichts am Hut hat, wie ich beinah, dann kann man dieses Buch trotzdem lieben!
Ob er auch nachhaltig ist, kann ich jetzt natürlich nicht beantworten, aber für den Moment war es schön und ich habe durch Anna wieder eine kindliche Lebensfreude gespürt und das tat meinem Herz sehr gut!
She occasionally (at least once per chapter) lets loose with a metaphor or pronouncement that is as deep as they come, but it is hard to imagine a real five-year old spouting these profundities with such regularity.
I have no idea, but I do know that her death in the final chapter (this isn't a spoiler---Fynn tells us about her death in the first few pages) felt real enough.I loved the characters of Fynn and Anna, yet I have mixed feelings about the book itself.
Too religious for my callous soul.
Mister God, This is Anna is a book a bout a man who finds a little girl wandering the streets, and he takes her home.
Granted it does sort of explain itself out of that hole, and the book is set in the 1930s so it is forgivable, but still, it makes me giggle.
Anyway, the book is ok, I suppose.
I don't think you need to be a believer in God to enjoy it, you simply need to be respectful of religion, I suppose.
Anna is a precocious little thing who spends her days puzzling the narrator, Fynn, with intense questions and poignant observations about the world around her.
Това е книга от книгите, които променят. Всяка страница разкрива толкова много, че ти се струва, че, независимо, че си я прочел, е нужно да се връщаш и да я препрочиташ отново и отново, все пак да не си изпуснал нещо. Прекрасна е.
More of a 4.5 - this book was very emotional and powerful and really makes you think! I loooved the relationship between fynn and Anna, it was just so lovely to see how this little girl affected him. It definitely makes you think and I recommend this to everyone, even if you're not religious.
– Нали не очакваш, че Мистър Бог знае, че той самият е добър, мил и любящ?Предполагам, че дори не бях си и помислял за това, никога, но поставен по този начин, въпросът имаше само един отговор, макар да не бях убеден в неговата истинност.– Предполагам, че не – отговорих с известно колебание.Въпросът „Защо?“ заседна някъде между мозъчната ми кутия и гласните ми струни.
Нямам нищо против да приема идеята, че всичко е илюзия, но че Мистър Бог е празен – това просто беше против всичко установено.
И ние правехме всичко това, както ми бе дадено да разбера, за да оправдаем вътрешните си убеждения.Е да, ама Мистър Бог беше малко по-различен от едно цвете.
I read it several times, stole my parents' copy when I went off to college and moved to Europe, and finally lost it at about age 30 when I lent it to someone who left the country without returning it.
I would have returned it, but she left no adress, and this was in the days before the Internet, where I live now.)Fast forward to the 90s, and I came across a copy of Anna and the Black Knight and pounced on it.
I read this book to my son when he was five.And I hope he’ll read it to his kids one day.Mister God, this is AnnaIt’s a title that stayed in my mind over years.
When you began to see what it was all about, how things worked, how things were put together, then you were beginning to understand what Mr. God was.Anna died when she was 8.
A wonderful, touching, very emotional story about a girl that changed not only the life of the people she lived with, but also of the thousands who read about her.I’ve read this book many times over.
"Hallo, Mister Gott, hier spricht Anna" erzählt von einem kleinen Mädchen, das der 19jährige Ich-Erzähler, der sich selbst den Namen Fynn gibt, eines Nachts auf den Londoner Straßen der 1930er Jahre findet und mit nach Hause nimmt, da sie offensichtlich misshandelt wurde und daher fortgelaufen ist.
Dieser ist selbst sehr begabt, vor allem im Bereich der Naturwissenschaft, aber die Gespräche mit Anna verblüffen ihn immer wieder und er staunt über den Scharfsinn des kleinen Mädchens.
Kontinuierlich zieht sich der Faden des Staunens über Annas Weisheit und Begabung durch das Buch, Fynn macht klar, dass jeder von Anna lernen kann und auch von ihr lernen sollte.
.The book allows us to meet Anna, a precocious child of four years.
From the moment Anna refused to tell anyone where her parents lived to the moment of her death, Anna manages to control her environment and those around her, although her control is a loving, gentle control.Anna treats Fynn with her special philosophy of church, God, sex, and numbers.
Indeed, Anna taught Fynn that it is the questions that are truly important.
There are some who may say no child could ever do or think what Anna did but I am here to tell you, I personally know of at least one.
Although the prose is relatively simple and somewhat coarse in some parts of the book and Anna's explanations are rough and terse even to the point of being abtruse, it just goes to show you that not all beauty is created by skilled and stylish techniques of trained artists and not all truth lies in fanciful and coherent arguments.
Just as Jesus lied in the manger and Buddah among the ragged, sometimes the most beautiful poetry and the deepest, truest philosophy is 'in the middle' of a field of wildflowers, a child's indecipherable scribble or the silent smile of the common prostitute.
Were this a work of fiction I would have found young Anna an unbelievable character.
Beyond precocious, Anna is deep and preceptive.
Many times I had trouble following her line of thought and had to work my own lil' noggin in order to grasp the meaning she was trying to convey.To modern American sensibilities the relationship between this man and the child he discovers late one night are odd, to be sure.
It forced me to set aside my preconceived notions about childcare and focus instead on the content of their relationship rather than the parameters.
I will definitely be checking out Fynn's further musings about Anna.

What an peculiar little book.
The publisher writes in the front that the story is true and the author uses the name Fynn so people will read what he has to say and not judge the man.
Whether it's true or not I guess doesn't matter.
This little girl's pure view of everything was a joy to read.
I just got bogged down by how obscure many of the stories were.
Shouldn't Mr. God be easy to understand when explained by a little girl?
I am very glad I got the opportunity to experience this book, fact or fiction the reader can only decide.
This was a wonderful story that made me both laugh and think deeply.
Many deep theological topics were touched upon in the life of Anna yet as she was merely a child they were explained with a simple understanding that made the book all the more delightful.
The honesty of the writer to tell the narrative in a direct way by adding little details of thought and expression to make the reader fully understand made the story flow smoothly though there was much dialogue.
I finished the book loving the child Anna and looking at myself to see if there were places in my life that needed to be uncaged from common thought patterns.
Mr God, this is Anna, probably moved me more than any other book I have read to date. Fynn is a subtle and masterful storyteller with a simple, highly effective prose that settles softly yet indelibly on one's soul. I read this true story over two decades ago, but still I feel the raw emotions that were revealed back then. If you can still get hold of a copy, and would enjoy discovering a beautiful, heart-rending tale about an abandoned child in post-war London, then do it now, but prepare to shed more than mere tears.
I read this book as a teenager and continue to re-read it as an adult. There are certain books that make such an impression on your life that you know that you are somehow changed. What surprised me most is that a book I picked up as an 'easy read' would fall in the same category for me as To Kill a Mockingbird, Of Mice and Men and I Am the Cheese. Mister God is a book that seems to prove the quote from Mother Theresa that a single stone thrown into the water will effect many with the ripples.
Ох, толкова мислех, че книгата ще ми допадне, а толкова тя не ми допадна. Не знам защо очаквах нещо доста по-различно - като например едно жизнерадостно, търсещо игрите дете, опознаващо прекрасни свят, което намира Господ не в математиката, а точно в радостта на детството. Винаги съм смятала, че децата са по-близо до Бог, но не по този начин. Много сухо. Това дете беше толкова дидактично, че някак никак не беше дете.
En mi oficina se ha creado de manera espontánea un pequeño "club de lectoras"; una de ellas me prestó este libro por tratarse de uno de sus favoritos y sabiendo que "El Principito" era uno de los míos. Lo disfruté mucho, y creo que es de esos libros, que al igual que "El Principito", se entienden, saborean e impactan más en una segunda o tercera lectura.
I read this book shortly after it came out, when I was exploring my own teenage understanding of my relationship with the Divine. Anna's expanded understanding of G-d's "viewing places" - a multifaceted/multidimensional entity - has informed my deepest commitment to interfaith dialogue through out my adult life.
this has been the most unusal read for me till date as its full of perceptions about normal day to day things we do. a must read for people who are atheists or agnostics, will not make them believe in GOD but still will give them a new perspective. thoroughly enjoyed reading it, one of those books which i am ready to read again again every 2-3 years just to get a new lease of life.
