https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/282098.Chancy
Nobody does gunfighting like L’Amour.
Or cattle driving, or flirting with pretty girls.
Nobody describes western scenery better.
This book is one of his best, except that there are maybe too many bad guys.
(One of them is a lady!) They just keep coming.
That brings on more brawling and shooting, of course, but we’re never in doubt that the hero will win, even though the betting odds in the saloon are a hundred to one against him.
The good guy always wins, against a spectacular western sunset.
Whenever I read a L’Amour novel, I want to go there and never come back.
Along the cattle drive he comes into contact with a cattle man who gives him a herd and some men and Otis Chancy sets out to find a ranch of his own.
The book told a very good story and was a great easy going read.
I liked how all of the character mingled into the story and had their parts.
When it comes to disliking the book I really cannot find anything I didn't like.
As I said early he is my favorite author and I have yet to find one of his books that I did not enjoy.
After all, I don't know if Hickok actually was the marshal in Fort Laramie, but I do know that he was a lawman in the Nebraska Territory, which covered what would someday become Wyoming.Chancy is a different from a lot of the other Louis L'Amour books that I have read.
Still, I generally love all of Louis L'Amour's western stories and always look forward to cracking open a book and returning to a time when the west was ruled by a six shooter.Overall, Chancy is good story that kept me interested, but lacked a little something.
Still, I enjoyed my time in the wild west and always enjoy the tales that Louis L'Amour tells in his stories.
Another Best WesternI love the way Louis lamour serves up a slice of Americana. Sure his hero's all have a slight touch of superman but i don't mind suspending belief for a good cowboy yarn.
“Chancy” by Louis L’Amour is a book that peaked my interest when I first saw the cover.
It begins when Otis Tom Chancy, an orphan from the remote hills of tennessee, is hungry and stumbles upon a small group of riders herding cattle to market.
He know has to defend his herd from a group of angry rustlers looking to claim his herd for their own.
“Chancy” is a very exciting read.
This story is one of adventure, gunfights, and thrilling rides across the open plains.
If you are interested in westerns, and stories of adventure then this one is just for you.
Chancy, an orphan from the hills of Tennessee, gets locked up in a jail cell.
He must find a way to prove his innocence.1871, Abilene, Fort Laramie, and Wild Bill Hickok.
A time when cattle were sixteen dollars a head.Chancy is young, with the future in front of him.
Honor, courage, and grit, characteristics that cause me to return to L'Amour's books.Favorite line on the range: "I like seeing the night pale and the stars wink out one by one, like candles snuffed by a quiet wind."Reading, Chancy, I felt the wide-open range, stream-side, and the open skies.
Otis Tom Chancy is young man from the hills of Tennessee who heads West to make his mark.
He chances upon a cattle drive made up of older men.
When outlaws, lead by a man posing as a sheriff, tries to take the herd Chancy kills him.
With a share of the herd and a chance to fulfill his dream he starts to drive the herd to Wyoming.
But another pack of outlaws lead by ruthless men and a woman follow their trail looking for any chance to ambush Chancy and his drovers.
It is an exciting western tale and one of L'Amour's best.
Chancy is a relation to the Sacketts, but they don't play into the story at all. I wondered at the trust people placed in one another. I know it was a different time, but it seemed that they must've had to really rely on a man's word.
I can't believe I read this book, but I was desperate. It was the only English book I could find on a hotel shelf in Ecuador. Chancy is a pretty amazing guy. He won the fights and gun battles. He got the girl. Happy ending.
Luis L'amore books are undoubtedly great reflections on western life. This book was great as it is a quick read with some clever action and some simple but interesting plot twist.
A good read by one of the best western authors.
Another great by Mr. L'Amour.
good read. enjoyed it thoroughly. mr. lamour's descriptions of the landmarks of the american west are well done.
A fast, easy read I enjoyed it overall. The ending was a bit abrupt, with little to no denouement but a good story in general.
He wants to prove to himself and others that he is more than just the son of a drunk horse thief.While out west he comes upon an opportunity too good to pass up - the chance to be his own man and own a stake in a cattle operation.
When Chancy defended his newly acquired herd with a shotgun, he didn't miss.
Now he's got a cattle drive to finish and a profit to make.
The cattle drive is described so vividly you feel like you are right there.
And Chancy proves himself an honest man in all his actions, even when forced to kill.
chancy takes after a guy named Otis Chancy it started out when he had nothing the young drifter played his hands for keeps talking his chances against crooked sheriffs, deadly gunman, and renegade Indians. he fought his way along back trails and through wide open cow tows learning the bitter rules as he went along. when the smoke cleared away he stood alone boss of his own cattle outfit.it was a really good book to read.
Good book. Very insightful into areas as disparate as: life in the mountains of Tennessee in the early 1800s, business in Abilene, the frontier in Wyoming, and interactions with several native american tribes. A good read, with the standard fighting and gunplay and, oh by the way some romance, but also more information on how business took place than usual in L'Amour's books. Less survival, more business. Easy read. Recommended.
Well anything by the master storyteller Louis Lamour is going to be amazing,but what strikes me with this story in particular is that you truly feel as if your there.Possibly the greatest of all time Mr.Lamour actually visited the lone empty places he wrote about which makes his details so much richer and full of life.
When I first picked it up, I wasn't yet ready to veer from high brow literature like The English Patient, James Joyce etc and I put it back down after a few chapters. Then DT got elected and I needed some good escapism. I had a great time reading this cowboy yarn! I love western movies so why not a western book? Yep, I'll likely read some others soon enough.
i read a previous edition...'78 was the year...you could do worse......what's all the rage today? gay chick lit? lesbian vampires?...and hey, whoa there, partner, don't talk so loud, you may find the posse on your backtrail, riding hard, teeth grit, foaming at the mouth.lamour's stories took me away from the place i was and there is nothing wrong with that.
An adventure into the wild west. Louis L'Amours had the ability to take the reader into the challenging times that may have transpired as people moved west to settle. Chancy is related to the Sacketts yet does not call upon them in this story. Good old western stories seem to be out of style with the current writers, yet I still enjoy them.
Chancy is a drifter with a chip on his shoulder and something to prove. He has to kill a few men and finagle his way out of some dicey situations before he gets what he deserves. A good read...with a female villain no less.
It was a good book because they moved cows to sell. They ran in to problems like Indians or someone dieing. Chancy made it without getting killed by the men that caught him and the Indian helped him find the guys that did it and they got his hat back that they stole.
Read most of Louis Lamour's books when I was in my late teens and early twenties. They are important to me as they were some of the first books that got me into the reading habit. For that I shall be forever grateful
Chantry was nineteen when he bought some contested cattle and shot a fake sheriff in Indian Territory. He had left the mountains four years after his father was lynched. Now in the West he would run into the lynchers and a girl who had been kind to hime. But trouble seemed to follow him.
Another great western. A cowboy builds a herd of his own, and settles near the "Hole in the Wall" all the while keeping ahead of the outlaws and indians. L'Amour's stories always have a good ending, also.
Let's see... a skinny young hero who must overcome the odds and win out over a group of rascally toughs without becoming a bad, bad man while also trying to get the girl and avoid getting killed by Indians? Yes, please.
E
How can you not love L'amour? The guy can tell a cowboy tale like nobody's business!
Kept me reading loved the history as I grew up in that area
