https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3558003-lord-of-misrule
Basically, this series is my life right now. Ahhh Shane....my baby ♥ Here are some quotes from the book that either made my heart melt, cracked me up, or just made me fall harder for Shane and Claire :P "Hope you like the underwear you have on; I didn’t go through your drawers.” “Afraid it might get you all turned on?” Shane asked from over her shoulder. “Please say yes.” He grabbed a pair of his own jeans from the pile. “And please stay out of my closet.” Eve gave him the finger. “If you’re wor
"Hope you like the underwear you have on; I didn’t go through your drawers.” “Afraid it might get you all turned on?” Shane asked from over her shoulder.
He just kissed her hands, turned, and walked away, dragging her red, bleeding heart with him—metaphorically, anyway.
“Be grateful I’m not leaving you as an after-dinner mint on his pillow.” Myrnin leaned close to Claire’s ear and said, “I think I like your young man.” When she reacted in pure confusion, he held up his hands, smiling.
“I love you,” he said, and kissed her so hard he took her breath away.
This is yet another book I would’ve enjoyed more had I continued right away.
Alas, I’m grateful for the few subtle drop-in reminders of events in previous books to get me back up to speed for the rest of the series (which I’m planning to continue in a timely manner).
I know every time I pick up a Morganville book I’m going to be entertained.
The storyline for Lord of Misrule specifically felt a little more erratic than previous books.
Overall, I’m excited to dive back into this series.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com Other books you might like:
It seems like no one knows these days in Morganville since everyone has their own agenta.Mr. Bishop is fighting to take Morganville from Amelie.
Amelie is fighting to keep her Moranville safe, humans are fighting to take over the town from the vampires.
Through the whole book Claire, Shane, Eve and Michael run around Morganville accomplishing nothing.The things I did like is how the characters grow every day.
It had been a while since his dad had blown out of town, and she thought that Shane had probably convinced imself that the guy wasn’t all that bad.
Finally gave this one some attention after a few years!!! It wasn't the writing that made me lose interest, more that my tastes have changed in what I read. One day I may continue on with the Morganville series but for now I will put it on hold!!!It is a great young adult series though, especially if you are into vampires!!!
Wartime in Morganville.
Those siding with the vampires, go to the left.
Those siding with the humans, go to the right.
Oh, and there's a tornado on the way according to the weather forecast, do take cover.What a lovely mess this book was.
Rachel Caine has done such a thorough job with her, you can see the changes in her personality as the series progresses.
I want an older sister like Eve. She's the best friend a YA/UF heroine ever had.But what I love the most about these books is that there is no good and evil.
This was a mess.
But it was supposed to be a mess.
In the aftermath of events from the preceding book, Morganville has lost its mind and is going to hell in a hand basket.
I felt just as confused and frustrated and tired as Claire had to be as I read, which speaks highly of Caine’s ability to craft a story that draws readers completely in.
As with those before it, this book ended with an insane cliffhanger.
I had to immediately start reading the next installment as soon as I finished the last page!
So it’s another three-star rating from my side.
I was hoping Lord of Misrule will finally be THE five-star Morganville book, but it seems like we’re back to the “could have been so much better” state.I have no idea what went wrong with this book.
It had a pretty good, yet weird, start but by the end things got confusing and messed up.
Poor Eve ended up carrying a huge load on her shoulders.
The ending was a mess.
Let’s see what Morganville #6 is going to throw in our way.Review also posted on
I first read this series last summer on ebook, so obviously I was very eager to read the next installment. And I was not disapointed.Lord of misrule starts where it left off in Feast of fools. There's a war going on and everyone is choosing sides. The humans are revolting against the vampires and there's a storm coming. Literally.This is by far the best book in the series with the worst cliff hanger I find myself wanting to pull my hair out until the next one comes out in June.
4.5 starsBook 5 and I'm still not bored of rereading this series. This book had quite a lot of action going on with Bishop terrorising the town and the group trying to stay together and safe. Of course, my favourite parts are still with Myrnin. He is bonkers but you can also see he genuinely cares for Claire and I love him oddities and all. Oh, and not to forget the pencil stake stabbing, that was ridiculous but bad ass.
I feel like the Morganville series is one of those series that starts out a little slower but seriously just keeps picking up momentum as every book goes.
Everybook is just a little better than the one previously.
Claire was a little annoying - just as people are starting to treat her like an adult she decides to basically sulk all the time.
Like for real there is mass chaos and you are wallowing in pity - why?
Like for real.
But I guess maybe shes a better person than I am?
I ultimately feel like this book is really setting up for the ones to come.
Well that was a giant disappointment. I was expecting something a lot different and maybe a book that didn't feel like a chapter of a larger book. The cliffhanger ending to these books drives me insane. I don't know if I'll bother to read the other books in the series when they come out. Claire is also a bit boring and I still can't see her motivations for jumping into every single problem.
Wow...so, i was really sad and disappointed about the ending...Claire working for bishop???i mean co
Lord of Misrule is the fifth book in the Morganville Vampire series.
Picking up after the ending of book four, Claire and her friends are still dealing with the new evil vampire in town, Bishop.
There's a huge uprising going on and a storm threatens the town.
I have to say this might be my favorite of the series so far.
It felt as if the action that was missing from the last book ended up added into this book.
Something constantly going on which makes for more exciting reading.
Still not my favorite series ever but as each goes by it drags me in more and more.
Wow, I just finished and I can't believe what just happened. Morganville has gotten to be a even scarier place to live in. In this book all hell has broken lose in Morganville with the war between Bishop and Ameile. It was another fast paced read with so many twist and turns that took me completely by suprise. And the ending, I was in shock. I love the Claire and Shane moments in this book. It was nice to see the sweet side of Shane. All the characters were outstanding as always. Read this series it is amazing!
I knew as I had only five pages left something seriously out of control was going to occur, but I didn’t see that coming!
I seriously gasped, and I am still in shock!Lord of Misrule is book five of the Morganville Vampire series, and by far the most action packed of them all.
In this installment, the town of Morganville has been turned upside down with the coming of Bishop, Françoise and Ysandre.
When the war and the storm settle, not much will be left of this town and its inhabitants.This book was seriously OUT.OF.
When I started reading this book however, I never got the same action and thrill as the other books.
Everything comes crashing down as the war between Amelie and Bishop continued.
There was a vast amount of action in the book maknig me want to read more and more.As always, some kind of romance is shown.
Claire's and Shane's moments are the moments you can't wait for.
I love it and especially since Shane's sweet side is revealed even more.I am definetly continuing with this series and the ending...
I did not see it coming...
I need to read Carpe Corpus!
This book was much more action packed and eventful than the other books.
Though I wasn't extremely compelled at the beginning of this book as the characters were apart, as they grouped together and the events progressed, the book became absolutely thrilling.
This one was certainly action-packed and brought the series onto another level.
Though I sometimes dislike lots of action as the fast pace can be hard to focus on, this one wasn't too hard to follow - it simply increased the pace and added more suspense.
I am absolutely loving the further development of the characters.
This one was amazing. It's full of tension and suspense and it was literally impossible to put down. The war has started, and the vampires and humans find themselves working together to defeat a common enemy. It started off a bit slow, but once all the characters were back together, it was excellent. The plot has become quite complex, and there are so many characters to keep track of, but it wasn't hard to follow. The ending was scary, and not what I expected, so I'm hoping it changes in the next book.
I like this series but Claire is just annoyingly naïve to the point that it can be difficult to get into the books. I will continue the series but a book this size is a normal one day read for me, yet I just have trouble staying amused long enough to read it quickly.
I'm going through a shit ton of emotions right now.(view spoiler)[Long story short:-->I really really REALLY hate Bishop.
Can somebody please kill him already??-->When the fuck did Michael have time to swear allegiance to Bishop?
I knew somebody was going to use you against your psychotic dad, again!!-->Claire isn't even Claire anymore.
(hide spoiler)]Other than that, it was a good book.
Claire's parents still annoy me.
Monica annoys the shit out me too but I'm glad she's becoming acquainted with karma.
I'm scared to open the next book in this series...but I'm really hoping that I get to see the justice that this town deserves.
Wow damn. This definitely kept the action up from Book 4. I have no idea how everyone will get out of this shit hole they've dug themselves into. I'm honestly scared for book 6 just a little. This and Midnight Alley are my favorites so far. I hope the next books will keep this up.
We were actually going to get a book of stuff actually happening!Then she decided to go home and fret.
But no, we quickly end up in the common pattern for Morganville Vampires – Claire sat around fretting and not doing anything relevant to the plot while stuff goes on around her.
There's an outright war tearing apart Morganville, two massive, powerful factions, humans rising up against vampires and vampire collaborators – aaand Claire is not really involved in any of it.It makes it worse because when Claire does get involved it looks convoluted – inevitably because she's been targeted by the enemy (for no apparent reason) or because she has made a ridiculous decision to leap into the middle of events she barely understands.
Claire, Shane, Eve, and Michael spent most of this book doing their own things and I really missed seeing the interactions between the four of them.
The ending was especially exciting and with all the death and destruction, paired with the cliffhanger, I ended this novel already reaching for the next one!Claire and Shane are always going to be one of my favorite fictional couples and even though interactions between the two of them were limited this time around I still loved every stolen moment between them.
Be aware that you will need to read the other books in the series in order to fully understand the world of the Morganville Vampire Series.Glass HousesDead Girls’ DanceMidnight AlleyFeast of FoolsLord of MisruleLORD OF MISRULE picks up right where FEAST OF FOOLS leaves off.
Eve goes with Oliver to Common Grounds to protect the valuable territory, Michael heads to the University to protect the thousands of clueless students, Claire is set to go with Amelie to rescue Myrnin, and Shane is going to drive the Blood Mobile around to keep it and an important book out of Bishop’s hands.
The plot was confusing and jumpy, there were inconsistencies and it read like the author was suffering writers block.That being said, I still love the vampires, especially Myrnin, and Claire and Michael.
Now that we’ve had backstory and plot and development for Eve, I feel like the author is really lacking in building an emotional connection to these characters.
This is book five of a fifteen part series, and I couldn’t care less about half of the main Glass House gang.
Being that she’s the main character, you can see her developing before your eyes, which is amazing.
but he always seems to hav a back up or a plan- i wonder wat his plan is this timei love how the four of them- Claire, Shane, Michael and Eve all stick together even tho they are scared and really dont want to go ahead, it shows the true meaning of friendshipSHANE TOLD CLAIRE HE LOVES HER!!!!
i never thaut Shane wud hav so much resistance- more than Claire- but it shows he can be sensible abt some things and wait till she is readythe last part was a total shocker!!
Claire swore herself to Bishop after Myrninn betrayed her..
and now Shane is locked up- and Michael is under Bishop's influence too!!!
DAGNAB YOU RACHEL CAINE!!!
Dagnab you to heck for being a fab writer and leaving such a hellah dangly cliffhanger!!
One saving grace, I can go get #6 CARPE CORPUS sooner since I didn't read LORD OF MISRULE until well after it came out.
CARPE is on the shelves as of June so I can get relative immediate satisfaction...just have to get to the bookshop or hit the send button on the book order.
As it was, I stayed up waaay past my bedtime to read "just one more page".Five swangin' cliffhangah beans......
Wow, everything in Morganville has turned into total chaos!
The war between Amelie and her evil father Bishop, has gotten a whole lot worse.
I would hate to be a pawn in their game.
There's a whole lot of crazy going on.
Again, the characters are stunning.
The snarky remarks and the lust between them has grown and developed.
There are so many moments that will have you thrown off your path of "I know how this is going to end".
Another entertaining installment to this series!Love this quote in the book: (page 85)"That went well, "Dean Wallace observed.
Hmmm.So Claire & Company end up fighting for their lives through another adventure in Vampire Town....and we have another wild cliffhanger ending.Yep. That pretty much sums up the whole reading experience.It might be because I don't like Claire and Shane enough to care about what happens to them.
If the story were told from Eve or Michael's point of view, I can see myself caring more.
Unfortunately, those two seem far more interesting, but you never get to really see what they are feeling/thinking because it's the Claire Show.I don't hate these books, but I'm thinking I'll only be coming back to Morganville when I run out of all the other stuff I really want to read.
This book was so much better than the one before it, which I am really pleased about!This one did start out quite slowly, and I did worry that it was going to be as boring as book 4, but thankfully it picked up and got really good!There was plenty of action, and some little unexpected twists, although we were left with the usualy cliff-hanger.Overall;8 out of 10The end (view spoiler)[ Bishop has taken over Morganville, and has also taken control of Claire, and made her swear loyalty to him! (hide spoiler)]
