https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28374062-the-kept-woman
As I have had many people contact me saying "This is my first Slaughter book and I wasn't really feeling it", I think it's important to note that this is a TERRIBLE book to pick up as your first read by the author.
I think most fans of the series will be extremely pleased with The Kept Woman; I'll go back to my Karin Slaughter hangover that I get whenever there are no more KS books to read.
Last year's Karin Slaughter stand alone Pretty Girls book left me kinda disappointed. (A whole ton of people loved it so back off)...But this book. Karin Slaughter has long been one of my favorite authors and this series along with the Grant County ones are a reason why. I've always said that her characters seem so real to me. Maybe because I've spent so much time with them. But crap, I still mourn Jeffery. You don't even have to love Slaughter's characters. Case in point, this book. Angie Polas
Last year's Karin Slaughter stand alone Pretty Girls book left me kinda disappointed.
(A whole ton of people loved it so back off)...But this book.
You don't even have to love Slaughter's characters.
The woman who leaves when she wants, leaves men and women hating her, and breaks in to Will's home to take personal items from Sara just to mess with her.
I love to hate this woman, Lena from the Grant County books was a close second on a female villain/anti-hero but Angie just shines.
Plus it's my all time favorite series ever, and I HATE series.
I feel that when an author does so well with the character that it really makes up the book to be fantastic.
The case is already a minefield: the murder scene, drenched in blood that isn’t Harding’s, is the construction site of the All Star, a nightclub owned by basketball star Marcus Rippy, who’s well-known to Will as the man who raped Keisha Miscavage and, thanks to his feral manager, Kip Kilpatrick, and an army of lawyers, walked away two weeks ago without so much as a summons.
This one had the pacing of a runaway train, revelations fast and furious.
Bodies found in a warehouse, one an ex-cop, another an apparent drug addict.
A warehouse that is owned by an very rich, talented basketball star who was recently the main suspect in a rape case.
But the big zinger, is that it all related back to Will's wife, the very troubled and troubling Angie.
Amazing back stories to the characters, and a big connection to the past.
Handlers, fixers, manipulators and those who will do anything to keep the money train rolling.
Secrets, one big one, and a stellar ending.
FANTASTIC BOOK!! Great series. I'm very devastated the series is over. I love Will Trent, one of my all time favorite book characters.
He has a past with probably the cuntiest fucking cunt that I have ever read about.
Angie POLASKI Yeah, let's call her Polaski, cos, in no way does she deserve the name TRENT.
Especially Special Agent Will Trent, with whom she has had an association with for over 30 years.
Yeah, well, you are some fucking crazy bitch, that I fucking hate.
Thanks to KARIN SLAUGHTER for being in Delft, The Netherlands in June where I could buy a few paperback copies for me and some friends and get them signed.
I love you Will Trent.I kind of prefer the other cover ...
Poor Trent he was like a broken toy throughout the novel, and Sara: she really fell flat this time acting all weepy and shit and making every fucking thing about her feelings, if only a lipstick and a bottle of perfume could undo her like this, imagine her freakout if she finds out about her laptop...
This is the 8th book in the Will Trent series by author Karin Saughter.
Extremely well written and the series just gets better and better for me as I get more familiar with the characters, I only wish I had read them in order.This novel focus's on Will's wife Angie Trent with the first half featuring Will and Sarah investigating an Atlanta crime scene with the body of an ex-cop.
Special Agent Will Trent has spent the last six months investigating the athlete for the brutal rape of a woman.
My second read in the series.
He soon finds out the victim is an ex cop and the warehouse belongs to a famous local basketball player, Marcus.
There's a lot of blood at the scene and it looks like there's another victim.
Medical examiner and love interest, Sara joins the team.
The first part of the book is in the details about finding answers to those questions while the second part is told by Angie.
It was a fleeting second.
It's a rapid fire read and the low key romance developing with Will and Sara has me anticipating the next in this series.
I was prepared to wait until September to have this book on my Kindle but one of the best things happened. My good friend Mo was lucky enough to meet Karin Slaughter in person at a book signing in Delft, The Netherlands and she had the book signed for me and mailed it off. Look at this!!! I was so excited that I would get the chance to read it sooner than the release date here in the states.  It is always challenging to write a series that will keep the reader engaged and invested in the main ch
I have loved the Will Trent Series from the beginning and after reading TKW I still do.
Karin Slaughter took her time with each character, molding them in such a way that you continue to love who they are (with one exception) and accept, albeit with frustration at times the changes that take place along the way.
Boy, these came to be true in TKW.While I loved this book I hated Angie, aka Cunty McCuntface, with every fiber of my body.
The Kept Woman was another FANTASTIC  installment in The Will Trent Series.
I loved the last chapter in this book.
Karin Slaughter has such a knack for writing books that make you want to keep reading until you’re finished. This book was such a page turner. A mix of love, deceit, rape, beatings, pimps, murder, and the price fame gives you. If you like heart pounding, page turning, heart stopping drama... then read this. Fantastic book. Was hoping the ending would have been a little different but still enjoyed it :)Slaughter reminds me of a female version of Harlan Coben!
I've been a fan of Karin Slaughter's books for quite awhile.
I got to know Angie better in this book, and I still don't like her.
I know there are some who find the violence in Slaughter's books to be too much, but this does not bother me.
If you're already a fan, I think you'll be happy with this book.
For new readers, I recommend starting with the first in the Grant County series in order to get to know these characters and to know what Slaughter is capable of doing with them.
LOLWARNING: Graphic scenes-- Murder, domestic abuse, rape, drugs, pedophilia, prostitution, incest ((not usually my type of read but I tried this out and it can def be real life to someone and plot was good))"It's never going to catch up with her, is it?" He said, "The people she hurts, The damage she does.""Trust me, Will.
It was twisty, turny and when you thought you had the plot figured out Slaughter would throw more in there to laugh at your sureness.It is a police thriller with loads of suspense and breath holding surrounding Will Trent of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and his team but also his personal life; the latter he is trying to cut ties from to start a new happy life.
*Character spoiler below*My only complaint with this book, if you can call it that, is that in bringing Will's wife Angie to the fore, Slaughter has overshadowed the other characters to such a degree that I might never think about them the same way again.
She's like a massive black hole, swallowing the space in the book and acting as the driving force of everyone else in it.
She's real in that jagged, hateful sense- like a character straight out of The Wire or a true crime book.
So whether that means Slaughter deserves a bravo, or not, is uncertain.
I love Karin Slaughter books.
Revelations come out during the investigation that threaten to harm relationships - both personal and professional.There is a lot of drama and of course, because this is a Karin Slaughter book, there will be murder, blood, drama, mystery, and investigation.
Slaughter is great with character development which is why I feel strongly about readers starting with the Grant County series and then tackling the Will Trent books.
If you’re after a reading pick-me-up, then Karin Slaughter’s the one to do it!!The murder of an ex-cop brought everyone to the site of the abandoned and derelict warehouse, including Will Trent of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, his boss Amanda and his partner Faith, as well as medical examiner, Sara Linton – who also happened to be Will’s girlfriend.
But this investigation wasn’t just about the visible dead body – there was far too much blood for that.
If they didn’t find her soon, there would be another body – and a much bigger investigation.
My second favorite genre to romance is thrillers and mysteries so today, when I was feeling the need for a palate cleanser, I read this book.Two years back, I read another psychological thriller/mystery by this author that I was really impressed with called Pretty Girls (my review) and what I was most struck by was how STRONG a writer Karin Slaughter was.
~Pls note~Rating interpretation: 5 Stars  - if ALL my expectations and criteria are met.NO Stars - Goodreads stars are not enough as the story blew me out of the water.This tune kept popping in my head when I was reading this book esp when the most hated heroine is mentioned, so let's do some (lyrics) tweaking on this famous song, shall we?  SHE'S BACK. THE MOTHER OF ALL BITCHES. SHE'S MORE CUNNING THAN EVER. AND SHE EVEN NICKED A LIPSTICK THIS TIME.  Guess who's back, back againPolaski's back,
~Pls note~Rating interpretation: 5 Stars  - if ALL my expectations and criteria are met.NO Stars - Goodreads stars are not enough as the story blew me out of the water.This tune kept popping in my head when I was reading this book esp when the most hated heroine is mentioned, so let's do some (lyrics) tweaking on this famous song, shall we?
Our confident Dr Sara Liston was no exception either.From harassment notes to her stolen lipstick - yes, Polaski is a real piece of work that she didn't just steal it but uses it at the same time.
“It is over.” What an incredible ride! My heart was thumping in my throat. It's so easy to hate Angie. In my opinion, there's nothing redeemable about her. Karin tries to humanize her but she fails big time. Angie is full of bad decisions and terrible actions. She enjoys hurting Will in a despicable manner. I certainly don't feel sorry for her. She had a crappy past but she had Will in her life. She CHOSE to push him aside over and over again. Now that Will is with Sara, she's jealous but she
The things she has done to Will and Sara and the way she thinks about Will makes her a monster.
“Needy bitches like Sara want the white picket fence and the kids in the yard.
An ex-cop is found dead in a soon-to-be new nightclub by a very prominent basketball player, Marcus Rippy.
Hopefully, they are not too late.If you read my earlier reviews, you know Sara is my favorite character.
Faith won't let his partner down.
“Don’t let this job turn you off men, Faith.”
Faith picked you.
Sara picked you.
OMGoodness!!!!!!!There WILL be a review to come.(see what I did there?)
I received a free copy of The Kept Woman by Karin Slaughter from Goodreads for my honest review.I absolutely love Karen Slaughter as an author. I plan on reading more of her books after reading this one. This book is absolutely amazing, mysterious, with secrets, lies, murder and more. I have not read Karen Slaughter's previous book in this series but I had no problem keeping up with the story line. Absolutely wonderful suspense novel!
Of course, I enjoyed it all!
I haven't read any of the other books in this series, but KS provides enough illusions to Detective Will Trent and his estranged wife, Angie's backstory that I never felt lost.
Angie Polaski might just be one of the most fascinating characters as she straddles the murky waters of good investigator/terrible wife.
As for Will Trent, he's obviously the big draw(it is his name headlining the series title) but he came across to me as too perfect.
On the other hand, it is fiction and it still didn't prevent me from enjoying the story.
The one character from this series that I cannot stand, whose very presence in the book is like nails on a chalkboard, is Angie - Will Trent's wife and a semi/sort of vice cop as well.
That said - it was a good read, it is typical Karin Slaughter writing style and in this book we, who are avid followers of Will Trent, get a lot of deep background on both Angie and Will and their past as kids in the system.
:/If you follow the series then this really is a "must read." If you like Karin Slaughter but don't really care about Will Trent/Sarah/Angie and their triangle then skip this one and read one of her stand alone novels.
Para mim o melhor livro de Karin Slaughter que tive oportunidade de ler!
É aqui que o leitor se surpreende com a constatação de que houve uma evolução na relação de Will e Sara!
Damos por nós a tecer as mais variadas hipóteses de como esta evolução aconteceu e quais as repercussões disso nas personagens nucleares da série.Mas não é necessário passar muito tempo para termos um contexto bem explicito e bem suculento das implicações e dos impactos na vida de cada uma das personagens.
Para mim este é o meu preferido entre as grandes obras de Karin, (...)Ler mais em:Opinião: A mulher oculta de Karin Slaughter |Livros e Marcadores
I like this author's writing, and this book was the usual emotional and suspenseful story that shows just how dirty and low people can get.
From cops to crooks, we see the wounds left ,both mental and physical, by the way humans treat their own species.
We see more of the way Angie does things to hurt Will any time she can.This is a continuing series, I read it ,so enjoyed this very much.
Any person who has not read this author may not be able to feel just all this emotion tied to all written here.
Love this series! The writing is amazing! Emotions all over the place, and the plot had me on the edge of my seat. (view spoiler)[Angie is just something else. She's definitely getting more dangerous, or maybe we're privy to all of her crimes like never before. I think she pushed Will too far this time.  IT IS OVER Even though they have a love/hate relationship, what Amanda told Will in the end warmed my heart. (hide spoiler)]Can't wait for the next one.
We need Will Trent and Sara Linton back in our lives.
Two years, folks!To best enjoy this book, you need to have read every single book in the Grant County and Atlanta/Will Trent series.
Can Will, Faith and Sara uncover what really happened in the night club?I love the way Karin Slaughter gives us complex beautifully damaged characters.
For Angie, life has sent her alone on a rather dark path.As for Sara, it is fabulous to see her returning to her work with the police.
I have such a Will Trent crush.This is a beautiful, dark, twisted and complex crime read.
For those who have recently become acquainted with Karin Slaughter via her latest bestselling psychological creepy thriller "Pretty Girls", and who might want to keep that relationship going with this newest book, "The Kept Woman" - STOP RIGHT THERE!
This is a SERIES, though the publisher has sneakily omitted referencing it - and do yourself the immense favour of starting Will Trent's Georgia police story at its beginning, as I and Slaughter's diehard fans have.
And with Will Trent, his childhood shadow, Angie Polaski, his alter, her crutch, the unwanted and ill-used cast offs from dirty cops, junkies, thieves, murderers, hookers...
THE KEPT WOMAN(Will Trent: #8)Written by Karin Slaughter2016; William Morrow (461 Pages)Genre: series, fiction, mystery, suspense, southern, police, grittyRating: ★★★★★WOWEE!!!
Karin Slaughter has written another winner.
Whenever I start a Slaughter book, I know I will not be doing much of anything else.
Slaughter is just amazing at characterization - as much as I love Will and Geoffrey for their flaws, I dislike very strongly Lena and Angie for their selfishness.
Sara realizes that the extensive amount of blood does not belong to the corpse, but belongs to a woman.
I cannot wait till the next Will Trent book!!!***I received an eARC from EDELWEISS***My Novelesque Blog
Top 50 Books of 2016!One of the top female crime writers in the world, Karin Slaughter returns following her stellar performance  Pretty Girls, landing on  My Top 10 Books of 2015  and  Cop Town  landing on  My Top 30 Books for 2014  with her continuation of the highly anticipated,  #8 Will Trent Series   THE KEPT WOMAN.
Man, "Slaughter can describe evil to the very core." Set in HOT Atlanta,  avid fans of Will Trent, Sara, and Angie (triangle)--you are going to devour The Kept Woman,  and at the same time, get to catch up with Amanda, Faith, Tess and familiar characters.
