https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38486.Starring_Sally_J_Freedman_as_Herself
The details in this book -- the social necessity of not wearing socks, the way the grass is different in Florida than New Jersey (NJ?) -- totally stuck with me, probably because I reread this book multiple times.But what makes this book spectacular instead of just another kid-issue book is Sally J.
The way Sally uses her family's actual experience of the Holocaust as melodramatic fodder for her imagination is dead brilliant: that's exactly the kind of thing kids do!
Sally's fantasies were very entertaining, in part because they were so appropriately inappropriate, and were the reason I kept returning to this book.
Freedman as Herself" is my favorite book.
The book takes place in the post World War Two era.
The book doesn't really have a main conflict, but you see Sally encounter world conflicts through naive eyes.
You also see Sally encounter everyday obstacles that continue today: sibling rivalry, problems with bullies, friendship jealousy, etc.
That is probably my favorite thing about this book: it doesn't have some unrealistic main problem that the book is all about.
I also like that it takes place in another time, to show that some things never change and to show the similarities between two very different times.
So my mother found a stack of book reviews I did in elementary school as part of my class competition for who could read the most books in one year. In her endless quest to clean out my paraphernalia from her house, they are now with me. I guess there were shades of GR back then--I won. Here is a random book review from the middle of the pack. Warning, I was a terrible and still am a terrible speller. Thank goodness for spell check! Otherwise I probably would have had to become an engineer :)
What a strange book! From old ladies who look like Adolph Hitler to experiencing WWII from the safety of Florida, Starring Sally J. Freedman As Herself is a wonderful but complicated coming-of-age tale.
Freedman as Herself supposedly is very much autobiographical in scope, and with this salient truth in mind, I do to a certain point very much applaud Judy Blume for not in any way sugar-coating or attempting to make light of the fact that once Sally (who is obviously based on the author herself), her mother and ailing older brother have moved to Florida (because of Douglas' nephritis), she absolutely despises her elderly neighbour Mr. Zavodsky and actually believes he is Adolf Hitler in disguise simply because of his Central European looks and likely heavy foreign accent (and even writes many poison-pen accusatory letters to him, which she fortunately does not mail).
One of the first books I truly considered a "favorite." Judy Blume was in New York doing a reading my freshmen year of college -- not having my copy with me, I bought a new copy of this beloved favorite and had her sign it. I couldn't stop gushing about how much I loved this book :o)Superb characters, this is a book that has always "stuck with me." I often think of and remember little bits and pieces from the story. One of those books that seems to get better and better every time you re-read it.
Just re-read this 30+ years after my first read. Timeless. It's Judy Blume's most autobiographical novel & one of her best, I think.
Sally J. Freedman is a 12-13 year old girl who can best be described as having a creative imagination that runs wild! The book is set in the late 1940s. Sally and her mother and brother move to Florida for the winter, and Sally has managed to convince herself that an elderly man who lives in her apartment building is actually Adolf Hitler in disguise and he has come to Florida to retire.
Do you ever have the desire to go back to your younger days & reread some of the first books that ignited your passion of reading?
For me, it was Judy Blume: from "Are You There God?
Judy Blume writes her books w/ a clarity & insight that always spoke to me & answered some of my own questions.
Whether it's a 10yr old girl post WWII or a 15yr old boy struggling w/ an inner demon & how to navigate the teen years, Blume's books spoke to me & I'm having fun reading them again for the 5th, 6th, 7th...12th time.
This was thoroughly enjoyable and entertaining!! Sally is so funny and sweet. Highly recommend and I can't wait to read more by Judy Blume!
The community they move to seems to be all Jewish and most of the other families are also down there for the winter due to illness.[return][return]Not only does Sally have to make new friends, but she also has to adjust to how different things are in the south, such as calling everyone ma'am and sir, and segregation (I love when she writes to her dad, confused about someone who scolded her and her friend for using the colored water fountain, and her dad says it's not that different up north, people are just quieter about it, and as an example asks her how many black kids were in her old school in New Jersey).[return][return]The other main thread is Sally's wild imagination (including her deciding a strange old man who lives in their apartment building is Hitler in disguise) and how she misunderstands things she hears grown-ups talking about (reading this as an adult, it's much more amusing to see the things that fly over Sally's head).[return][return]If you never read this as a kid, or even if you did, I highly recommend checking it out.
Giving this five stars just because I re-read this so often it's a story that stayed with me. It also fuelled my childhood obsession with Judaism and WWII. (That and my sister's GCSE textbook). Things I learnt through this book:- Who Esther Williams is.- Numerous Yiddish expressions.Things I didn't learn 'til later:- None of my family would give me a decent response when I enquired what a 'bordello' was. And it wasn't in whatever sub-par dictionary I looked it up in.
This was one of my favorite books from when I was a child.
She actually writes him a bunch of letters telling him she knows who he is and she's going to find proof.
She never mails any of them (she also doesn't mail the letters she writes to the police to tell them about her Hitler-neighbor) and thank goodness because can you imagine the reaction?
I want to give you a hug and shake you at the same time.I love this book just as much as I did as a kid, though.Highly recommended.
I loved this book as a child, and decided to comfort-read it this week.
I always thought that the book was about Hawaii, but it's actually set in Miami.
;)I like the way Blume writes and the way that she deals with hard topics in a children's/teen book.
Relationships, sex, breasts, babies, death and Hitler are all mentioned in this book.
This book is set in 1947, but in many ways, it's fairly progressive and feminist.
But what I forgot about this book is how weird it actually is.
There's one subplot where Sally becomes convinced that an old man living in her building is Hitler in disguise.
First sentence: "Can I have another jelly sandwich?" Sally asked her grandmother.Favorite quote: Just one more story before I finish packing, she thought.Although this is a fictional story it is autobiographical for the author. She lived much of what occurs with Sally living in Florida. This story was so honest and true to what a 10 year old girl goes through in the fifth grade. It could have been me at that age. Her stories were so imaginative. I loved how she gave her father loving treatments of kisses and that her grandmother lived with them. A wonderful read.
This is right after World War II.
Sally is moving to Miami Beach in Florida because her brother dislocted his elbow and had a kidney infection.
Sally's brother was so sick that her parents decided to go for the winter to Florida.
Sally's dad will not go because of work.
Sally meets friends and wants a Latin Lover meets a man called Mr. Zavodsky and finds him weird.
Will Sally like Florida?I loved this book because it is about a normal girl who moved and is too worried.
Sally misses her father very much.
It's been years since I've read any books by Judy Blume, and even longer since I've read anything of hers outside of the Fudge series. I'd heard that some of her other books caused controversy, and, with this one, it's not hard to see why. Suggestive content aside, the good writing in this book was marred by a boring story and too many disparaging remarks about God. Readers of youth-oriented fiction can do much better.
I love Sally. My favorite thing about this book is the way it evokes all those years of trying to figure out the adult world as a kid- you get all these little snippets of conversation or things you see, and you're constantly trying to put them together to make sense of things, or to test them out yourself. In some ways I guess we do that forever, but when you're a kid it's almost like every conversation and every action is an experiment.
I enjoyed the plot, but I felt a bit lost. I feel it was fast-paced. Like, they would be at home, then suddenly in a blimp. I did, however, like Sally's imagination and how she would make stories.
This was one of my favorite books as a child, one of my most read books.
One of my childhood favorite Blumes, this one kept coming to mind when I was reading What I Saw and How I Lied. I found, on this first re-reading since adulthood, that there was much in this book that went zooming over my head as a kid. I still thought it was a good read and it's always fun to see what scenes stay with you.
In it, Blume portrays misconceptions that can happen when kids don’t fully understand complicated events and how they fill in what they don’t know with their own ideas.Sally Jane Freedman likes her life in New Jersey.
After all, how many of them are familiar with Murphy beds, Margaret O’Brien, Admiral Halsey, a game called Jolly Roger, party line telephones and my personal favorite Potsie (hopscotch to those who live outside of NYC.) I think that for today’s reader, however, the book could use a glossary or something to help understand these things.
And Blume maintained Sally’s narrative voice so smoothly, letting the reader see exactly how Sally filled in the blanks to try to understand the world and what was going on around her.
Sally J.
Freedman and her family, Mom Louise, Dad Arnold and brother Doug finds themselves at a crossroads when part of the family moves to Miami from New Jersey.
The family, although coping, misses each other.
Sally finds new friends, makes up lavish and over-the-top, wildly concocted stories in her head, and is incredibly naive and whiny.
She doesn't have any clue about her family's tongue-in-cheek humor or facts of life.
Starring Sally J.
I think this version may have been especially grating to me since Sally's voice came off as incredibly foolish and whiny on tape.
She writes stories about her cousin, who died in his camps, and even thinks her new neighbor just might be Hitler in disguise.I loved bright, inquisitive Sally and all her creativity.
STARRING SALLY J FREEDMAN AS HERSELF is a slice of life, period piece, one of Judy Blume's earliest and most autobiographical novel.
Sally's age probably means the YA crowd won't be drawn to STARRING SALLY J FREEDMAN AS HERSELF, which is too bad because a discussion of post WWII America for Jewish families would dovetail nicely into history lessons.
I read this book so many years ago - I was probably just about SJF's age - but it's amazing how I remember every detail.
There is no real filter through Sally's eyes; we see everything because she doesn't know to look away.
And her understanding of little things like "White's Only" and "deals under the table" are hilarious!
Little things like cockroaches in chinese food and being sent home for lice might seem innocent enough, but they certainly tell a more intriguing story than what this first appears.
Why is this book on the bookshelf in my 8 year old's class??
How did teenage Bubbles get pregnant and why did her Jewish family disown her?
Why was Sally's dad's friend's girlfriend not wearing any underwear under her dress and why was everybody staring when she was bouncing as she walked by?
Is everyone in Florida there because someone in their family is sick and Florida sun is a magic cure?
The actual story follows the average life of a ten year old girl and the situations she may encounter on a daily basis.
Innocent enough and something I wouldn't mind my 8 year old reading.
After reading my very first Judy Blume novel earlier this year, Are You There God?
It's Me, Margaret, I couldn't resist reading another one of Ms. Blume's novels.
So, I decided to read Starring Sally J.
Freedman As Herself as my next read by Judy Blume.Well, I couldn't have been more disappointed after reading Starring Sally J.
Freedman As Herself by Judy Blume!!
I thought the leading character of Sally J.
In fact, I didn't like most of the characters in this novel...
I thought that most of the storyline for Starring Sally J.
I almost gave up reading this novel on several occasions.
I used to looove this.
On re-read, it's still cute, but there's a few things that are fucked up.
One is this weird "Latin Lovers" thing the main character goes on and on about, and there's also some fatphobia.
Also, perhaps this only bothered me because I happened to read the two one right after the other, but a girl who is doesn't know how to swim, doesn't want to get her face wet and learns how anyway is also a main part of Otherwise Known as Sheila the Great.
I recently re-read this, along with a couple of other Judy Blume favourites, as I was writing some self-esteem sessions for teenaged girls and wanted to get back into my own headspace at that age.
This is such a lovely book, and loses none of its charm for being read as an adult; in fact, I think the added charm is actually that I recognise so much of the behaviour of the adults in the stories as my own, now, and really appreciate the unique talent that Ms Blume hasin her ability to be right there in the difficult world of growing up.
I hope to be reading these with my children one day, and I truly don't think they will ever date.
Sally moves away from her home for the winter to Miami Beach for her brothers health. She was nervous about leaving her friends back at home in New Jersey and if she will make friends in Florida, will she like her new school, will she fit in?This was a really good book. I really liked Sally's personality how she wanted to be adventurous and she was always curious about new things and had a very active imagination. So if you like adventures and trying new things I recommend this book to you.
