https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2468675.The_Old_Road_to_Paradise
Margaret Widdemer (September 30, 1884 – July 14, 1978) in 1919 was the second recipient of a Pulitzer Prize for poetry for her collection titled “The Old Road to Paradise”.
The collection is arranged in seven sections titled “The Old Road to Paradise”, “The Singing Wood”, “Being Young”, “Womenfolk”, “People”, “Wistfulness”, and “Love Songs”.
“The Old Road to Paradise” section deals with religious themes, and Margaret draws on Jeanne d’Arc several times in these poems which seem to contrast faith and war to a great degree, nor should this be surprising considering that this was the period of the first World War and one can still hear the echoes of the war in poems like “Next Year”, “Good-By, My Lover”, and “Poem for a Picture”.
. .Never the sun in the Singing Wood Never a bird-loud glen!None of these poems are outstanding by any means, but they have a wistful charm to them that makes me wonder if this was the kind of thing Widdemer was naturally more at home with.Poems gathered under the heading 'Womanfolk' cover many female concerns, from different aspects of the mothering instinct ('Mother-Prayer', 'Woman-Lore') through to the effects of aging and the loss of youth ('Departure'), such as those moments when you see the lines of your forbears in your own face ('Discovery') and finally death itself ('The Dark Cavalier').The rhymes again have elementary schemes, but the meters are sometimes more sophisticated, like the unresolved quatrains included in 'Toys':'She loves the flowers, the wind that bends the fir;When the Spring comes she dances; and her mirthComes always when the water laughs to her.She holds the little daily sweets of earth'After that the rest of the collection largely comes from a selection of 'Love Songs', all short and again covering a range of emotions.Agreeable enough, but difficult to get too excited about alongside the 'Love Song of J.
Very simple poetry. Pretty straight forward. Some of it is about friends going off to war and the author having to grow up. Some prayers. Some memories of lost loves.
lyrical and sweet. that you read for music, joy and smiles of knowing.
There were some good quotes to be found among the lines in this book
