https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321577.Girl_in_Hyacinth_Blue
”She thought of all the people in all the paintings she had seen that day, not just Father’s, in all the paintings of the world, in fact. Their eyes, the particular turn of a head, their loneliness or suffering or grief was borrowed by an artist to be seen by other people throughout the years who would never see them face to face. People who would be that close to her, she thought, a matter of a few arms’ lengths, looking, looking, and they would never know her.” Johannes Vermeer self-portrait c
Susan Vreeland begins by introducing us to Cornelius Engelbrecht who has decided to reveal after many years of hiding the existence of the painting, a Vermeer, to his friend and art lover Richard.
Morningshine.In the later chapters we even meet Vermeer as he struggles with creditors and subjects for art that will inspire him to lift his brush.
She borrows every scrap of money she can to try and buy it when it comes up for auction, but paintings like that aren’t supposed to be owned by normal people, not even a person who has the blood of the painter cycling through her own heart.
Art lovers will probably enjoy this book. Historical fiction, art and art history, good writing, combined for a good read. I've read several of her books and this may be my favorite. I would compare it to Tracy Chevalier's Girl with a Pearl Earring.
Just arrived from Italy, kindly sent by Hayes, through BM.This book is a collection of 8 short stories describing the story of Vermeer, the famous 17th century Dutch painter.
A splendid and delightful book.1.
Love enough 2.
Night different from all other nights3.
Adagia4.
Hyacinth blues Girl in Hyacinth Blue5.
Still life -- The Little StreetThe View of DelftGirl Reading a Letter by an open windowThe MilkmaidChrist in the House of Mary and Martha8.
Magdalena looking.Some interesting links about Vermeer:Johannes Vermeer - The Art, Paintings and Life of Jan Vermeer "Van Delft"Johannes Vermeer’s influence and inspirationEssential VermeerJohannes Vermeer, a review by Mark Haden
Girl in Hyacinth Blue tells the story of a painting by the Dutch painter Vermeer, as it passes from one owner to another.
Interestingly, the story is told in reverse chronological order, beginning with the math teacher who, at present time, hides the painting in his home, to the girl in the painting and her wishes to become an artist herself.
I thought the book kept getting better and better as it travels back in history to reveal the effects the painting had on each owner.
I bought this book around 2008 to 2010. I just stored it in my box of books and never even bother to read it. Then I found this while I was sorting box recently. I never expected that I was deeply engrossed in the stories most especially Morningshine, From the Personal Papers of Adriaan Kuypers and Still Life. This is one of those books that is a page-turner and you'll still definitely love to read after several years have passed.
A previously "undiscovered" Vermeer is revealed and the author traces its ownership back in time to its origination. Each owner (or custodian) has a slightly different reason for wanting to keep the painting, and different reasons for letting it go. Each time it changes hands, the owner is pained to part with it. And still, for everyone it represents longing and wishes unfulfilled.
We follow an imaginary painting back in time.
And we don’t know: is it, or is it not by the Master Jan Vermeer?
The painting itself, or perhaps its anima, is the narrator of the story and witnesses the horrors of the Second World War, a flood in 17th Century Holland, the childhood of the girl who posed for the portrait.
I was left feeling that this was a perfectly true story and I cared very much about all of the characters and about the painting.
How could I not like Vermeer?
All the Vermeers in New York
In the course of her explorations, Vreeland covers a lot of time and space: "Girl in Hyacinth Blue" begins in present-day America and ends in the 17th century Netherlands, scrolling backward as each chapter accounts for the painting's role in the life of one of its owners.
Among other things, Vreeland has given us an art detective story, since the early chapters suggest that this marvelous painting--a portrait of a young girl whose face seems to be filled with dreams and longings--may be a lost Vermeer.
Great read!
Vreeland writes several short stories of a lost Vermeer painting and the people whose lives it touched.
The stories are told from the present to long ago, back in time.
This lost painting is a portrait of a young woman looking out a window, lost in thought, brilliantly clothed in hyacinth blues.
The stories contain exquisite visual descriptions of his artwork and the everyday lives of ordinary women.
I loved how Vreeland described color and how his paintings contained the "dust of crushed pearls." I also like how a glimpse into each family's lives makes them real and endearing to us.
I really enjoyed this book.
I've owned it for seven or eight years now, and I reread it every six months or so.
It's a beautifully written series of brief chapter-sized vignettes recounting the history of a Vermeer painting, as told (in reverse chronological order) by all the people who have possessed the painting.
The final stor(ies) are told by the painting's model, Vermeer's daughter.
Each chapter also deals with the decision of each character to give up the painting for various reasons.
Couple reading this with Girl with a Pearl Earring, which is also about a Vermeer painting.
Mi sono detta "Se i racconti sono tutti così sarà una faticaccia finirlo, per fortuna il libro è breve".
Ma il meglio era alla fine: gli ultimi quattro racconti mi sono piaciuti molto, in particolare i due ambientati durante la grande inondazione del 1717.Il voto effettivo sarebbe più 3.5 ma visto che i racconti erano in crescendo, la Vreeland si porta a casa 4 stelline e io farò finta di non aver letto i primi due racconti.
I liked Girl in Hyacinth Blue, not only because it portrays the impact of a single piece of forgotten art in the lives of dramatically different people over several centures; but also for its treatment of the figure in the painting itself: the “girl in hyacinth blue” was the daughter of the Dutch painter Vermeer, and she wondered what people would feel when they looked on her father’s painting, reflecting to herself that “they will never know me.” You can hear her struggling with the question of her worth as a woman, a mere daughter of a then-struggling artist who never himself had time to notice his daughter, except when he studied her academically for her portrait.
This is one of those books where an object is the main character, rather than a person.
In this case, the object is a (fictional) Vermeer painting of a girl sitting and looking out the window with her sewing in her lap.
I especially liked the story From the Personal Papers of Adriaan Kuypers.
Sad,(I cried at the end of it), but well told and a little more fleshed out than some of the others.I think it says something for the author that by the end of the book I felt like I could actually see the painting with all its colors and light play.
I picked this little book up at a 'nature' site on Cape Cod, a location where there are gardens and flowers for sale, and a little house where home-made jams and jellies are made.
This year they had a few used books for sale and the title of this book...I couldn't resist!It's the story of a painting, and its 'provenance' back through time.
In a rocking chair in the sun, then the breeze, in the near-perfect climate (for this time of year) of Cape Cod. I could almost feel this girl - in the painting, supposedly by Dutch artist, Vermeer - as she gazes off, just thinking...Just thinking.
Most of the chapters of this book were previously published individually, all telling bits of a story of another Vermeer painting.
I loved how there was so much mystery to the painting, so many stories surrounding it, even if they were fiction, still an enjoyable read.
Her descriptions of the landscape are also very vivid.Little bits I marked:"Now it became clear to her what made her love the girl in the painting.
But that didn't mean that the girl didn't want anything, like Mother said about her.
Cominciamo...1° racconto: Troppo amoreDove si racconta di un professore di matematica che svela il suo segreto ad un collega, insegnante d'arte: il possesso di un quadro (forse) di Vermeer, sottratto di nascosto dal padre (tedesco) durante il rastrellamento degli ebrei ad Amsterdam nella notte del 3 settembre 1942.
Nel girovagare con la sua barca, incappa in una famiglia (quella di cui al racconto precedente) e decide; prende il bimbo, il dipinto che aveva a casa, il certificato del quadro sul quale scrive un messaggio, un cesto, qualche coperta, un telo e lascia il piccolo nella barca della famiglia da lui scelta.
A flood of now washed over him, like water breaking through a dike and he welcomed it."He lived so badly, it seemed, because he always came into the moment encumbered.""she did not yet know that lives end abruptly, that much of living is repetition and separation"I was also annoyed that the last chapter was from the daughter's (subject's) point of view.
This was sort of an extraneous chapter; I felt like Vreeland should have picked one (either Vermeer or the daughter) for the last chapter.
This just read as an extra short story and an attempt to appeal to modern readers with a feminist perspective.Overall it was just sort of "meh".
This is one of the better novels inspired by the paintings of Vermeer.
I say that because I've recently read 4 of them:Tracey Chevalier's Girl with a Pearl Earring was undoubtedly the best of them, with a solid plotline, populated by recognisable characters and was sophisticated enough to involve thematic imagery.
The writing is good in this but the book is not so much a novel but a series of short stories that are linked by one Vermeer painting, a fictional provenance.
I wonder if there are any more Vermeer-related novels out there.
“In realtà il quadro qui sopra rappresentato non è propriamente quello di cui parla il libro della Vreeland; è un’opera originare dell’artista Jonathan Janson che, seguendo le “regole pittoriche” di Vermeer, ha prodotto un quadro nello stile del pittore di Delft.
Il quadro è poi stato utilizzato nel film Brush with Fate del 2003, realizzato a partire dal questo libro.
Di nuovo un ottimo libro dalle mani della Vreeland, che, pur non essendo una storica dell’arte, è capace di immergersi nei cuori degli artisti più facilmente rispetto a chi è del mestiere (o forse proprio per questo).
4.5 Half a point less for interrupting some of my favorite storylines just when I got into them. Still, a wonderful story of an imaginary painting, but actually a story about humanity, art and different perspectives. A great idea and an interesting style. Really made me think ponder about art and human obsession with beauty and inconsistency of life.
Tuttavia l’armonia e la pace del quadro le rammentano, sia pur confusamente, che esistono anche altri piaceri, del tutto mentali, che contribuiscono a far crescere e a migliorare e che non si possono sempre mettere a tacere in nome della razionalità.E’ un’ossessione e un pesante senso di colpa per Cornelius, che, pur amando immensamente il dipinto, giunge a pensare di bruciarlo, poiché sa che suo padre, durante il nazismo, lo ha rubato ad una famiglia ebrea deportata.E così via, per tutti i racconti.
One of my all-time favourite books by one of my all-time favourite authors, GIRL IN HYACINTH BLUE tells the story of a painting in a series of interlinked vignettes moving backwards in time.
And he cannot show it to any specialists, because the painting was, he believes, stolen by his father from a Jewish family in the Second World War.The next vignette is told from the point of view of a young Jewish girl in Amsterdam, bewildered as her world is destroyed around her by the invasion of the Nazis.
Reading this made me remember how I love reading books about art. This novel tells the story of a painting thought to be a lost Vermeer in 8 stories going backward it time from the present through its various owners back to the story of the painter and the subject. I loved the structure and each story.
Also a good story, but it was a jump from the previous characters and while well written, I never really bonded to any of the people in it because it was too short for me to do so.
After that, we start jumping further and further back, I feel that the further the stories got from the modern day, the more detail and research went into them and the more I liked them, the last two are interconnected with the artist and his daughter, showing the origin of the painting from two different perspectives.
In the course of her explorations, Vreeland covers a lot of time and space: "Girl in Hyacinth Blue" begins in present-day America and ends in the 17th century Netherlands, scrolling backward as each chapter accounts for the painting's role in the life of one of its owners.
Among other things, Vreeland has given us an art detective story, since the early chapters suggest that this marvelous painting--a portrait of a young girl whose face seems to be filled with dreams and longings--may be a lost Vermeer.
Moglo je to i bolje, stil je dobar (umjetnički, poput slika) ali meni je to cjepkanje u niz posebnih priča pokvarilo užitak čitanja.
A collection of stories related to the painting by Vermeer.
I want the whole thing." However, very rarely a book of short stories comes along which I find appropriate and satisfying.
Girl in Hyacinth Blue is a book of short stories, a connected history about a painting created in the 1600's by artist Johannes Vermeer.
This in a sense is a story of this paintings life.
Each chapter fit together well in the book, so the fact that they were short stories actually didn't bother me.
I tried to post my thoughts as I considered them at pivotal parts of the book to give a feel for what that particular short story caused me to consider.
I did not like this method at all and was frustrated that there wasn't a clear changing of hands between time periods---it made it hard to see these as connected stories surrounding this one painting.
I also would have liked to see her interview at the beginning of the book as a forward.
This would have explained some things and helped set the tone for an otherwise convoluted bunch of stories.
I did love the last two stories, though the "mystery" she alludes to in her interview was not at all a mystery---it was pretty clear from the beginning of the story who was the true artist.
Am I the only one that found this book disappointing?
This book traces the owners of a Vermeer painting backwards through time.
I actually had a difficult time caring about the first several owners.
Maybe I was tired, but I also had a difficult time tracing the painting's transfer of ownership until it came to the last few.
In some ways, this seemed a typical "form over function" book.
I think the author was pleased with the idea of tracing a painting backwards through time and was so tied to the idea, she couldn't recognize that the not-so-great result.
