https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63417.Jupiter_s_Travels
They've definitely got some things figured out.They met Ted Simon, and enjoyed an afternoon of story-swapping; my dad said this book made him want to take off across the world again.
Strange - having spent most of my life in the grips of such restlessness, this book actually made me reflect on the temporary contentment I now enjoy after years of being anywhere but here.Simon was a journalist prior to becoming a self-styled hero, and we are grateful - his writing is adequate, and often even lucid and beautiful.
Ewen McGregor: Hi I'm multi award winning Actor about town Ewan McGregor.
I've got a totally original idea for a TV show.ITV Exec: Oh Yeah...Ewen: Yeah, Me and my mate Charlie Boorman, the world famous star of stage and screen, are going to ride round the world on our motorbikes.
It'll be mega.ITV Exec: But what about that guy in the 70's called Ted Simon who did all that but without all your money and good looks?Ewen: WHAT!
ITV Exec: Look i'm sorry but it's all been done before...Ewen(Pointing aggresively): YOU'LL NEVER WORK IN TELEVISION AGAIN.
We've been rumbled Charlie.Charlie: Oh No My BEST FRIEND Ewen.
What shall we do?Ewen: There's only one thing for it...BBC!
As much as you'd think the trip should be the focus, it's only ever about the author.When he's not being lavished with attention from the little people, he slips into deep self pity.
Never chained or threatened, he's taken out to meals and given books to read while being assured that it'll be worked out, which it is completely without incident and he's sent on his way.
It's where the book title comes from.
He's tired of the trip the moment he starts and it's obvious that he got equally tired of writing the book.
Look, is this guy an incredibly pretentious shit? Yes, oh, definitely yes. But it was written in the early 1970's so he's a very specific historical form of a shit. Which mean, eh, I forgive him. Loved this but I have a soft heart for pretentious shits traveling around the world (noted: Paul Theroux).
And I don't know if I was particularly moved to write one after finishing this book, or whether it just happens to be the first I finish since deciding I should write reviews.
'Jupiter' was profound for me, and worthy merely for the sheer scope of his travels.
In so many of the places he described, I had a vision of my own time there.
Viewed life in the way I wished to view it.
But I also felt changed in the ways he describes.
The best we can hope is that it finds us.
Hoping that those lessons stick.
This book changed my life (there have been others) but the first page is still the most powerful first page I have ever read. I scanned the first page into my computer so I can pull it up and read when I forget. Very powerful stuff - the book will keep you up at night. I don't believe this trip could be duplicated today. Too many hateful people in the world.
It’s been a long, long time since I cared at all for anything with a motor and even longer since I’ve ridden a motorcycle so this book wasn’t written with me as the target market.
He makes a few wonderful insights but he spends far too many words fussing over his bike and his predicament at different stages in his journey.
That will always have meaning.Simon spends quite a few pages describing his rather tedious confinement by Brazilian authorities while the gorgeous country of Costa Rica sails by carried on a single page, Nicaragua rates a paragraph.
I was disappointed with this book.
I had waited so long to get my hands on a copy, and when the chance came, greedily opened the book, looking forward to the adventure within.
While the adventure was there, and it was intresting to see how the world has changed since the book was originally written, I found it hard at times to get into the story.
He seemed to gloss over some parts of the journey, like it was nothing to be intrested in.
I just don't think I'll be seeking them out like I did this book.
The writing in the book is as bumpy as the roads the author traveled on, frequently crashing into a jumbled heap. His observations and caricature descriptions of different cultures seemed to be tied more to the weather than his personal interactions. The book's pacing is uneven with excessive detail in the beginning and some countries towards the end getting no more than a one line stereotypical summary. There are some well written vignettes scattered throughout the book but overall I'd give it a pass.
Who wouldn't like to vicariously travel round the world for four years on a motorcycle?Just like a trip around the world (been there, done that), this book truly reflects the experience. Not every moment of the experience tells a story or is dramatic and engaging and that is reflected in the experience of reading the book. If you are planning to make a large global trip, this is definitely a great read for you!
Ted's account of his 1973 world tour on a Triumph 500 can now be regarded as a record of history as much as a travelogue.Ted, in 1973 at least, was a complex character, but he writes candidly with the educated eye of a traveller rather than a tourist.
And today Ted is back on the road.
Are those green fields of wheat that wafted in the breeze in the opening of the book now an industrial estate?
And who should Ted bump into on his return journey, now in his nineties and still stitching?
Men can be gods and write like angels.
There is more to this man's journey than riding a motorcycle.
This guy is a man of the mind.
While riding atop his Triumph, he thinks a lot about the subconscious mind.
On his journey on a ship through the Atlantic, from Africa, to Brazil, he mentions he read a book by Jung and his thinking got even more complex and dark as he rode through South and Central America.
He came back to the place he "paused" the trip to continue riding around the world.
Just like him and his eagerness to finish his journey, I was eager to finish the book.
The tale seemed to drag at points and the conclusion seemed forced.Simon was not a motorcycle guy at the beginning and he seems overly obsessed about riding conditions, his abilities and danger for much of the book.
There are also points during the trek where he seems to be tickled by his ability to attract willing hands to help him out with his many mishaps/spills and breakdowns.
He almost expects others to help him out.Nevertheless, I think the book is worthy 3.5-4 stars.
It's not really the "must read" all my motorcycle pals said it is, but it is also not a stinker or even two stars.
I reread this book every few years, normally at a time when I need a pick me up, it reminds me of the first time I read this book, not having any real expectations and finding myself still sitting there hours later having gone on a long journey. This time around I read a edition that had a lot of photographs I'd not seen in the earlier paperback version I read until the pages fell out and it added a new touch to the story.
I love non-fiction travel books and this one's full of adventures but I think I struggled with it a bit because the trip was undertaken with the intent of writing a book, so even though descriptions are wonderful they fit expectations. I'm a bigger fan of books written in hind sight but liked it enough to keep the chain going Jack --> me --> David.
If you're a fan of Long Way Round you'll probably enjoy this book.
As a motorcyclist it was a good, fun book. As a traveler it was even better... the true value of this book lies in the humanity of the tale, after all... the point of the journey, is not to arrive.Read on my iPad and Android phone via the Kindle app on and in toilets around the world during the 2011 Yellowcard World Tour.
A must read for everyone, especially for those who think a bike trip to Laddakh is a huge deal. I loved Ted's way of telling the story, we are in his head all the time and seeing the world through it. It's not just a travelogue, it's Ted Simon's, his perspective, his world. A fun read.
He takes four years to get around the world. But he covers a lot of ground and spends time in many different places. I enjoyed the technical aspect of how he did things and what went wrong and how he fixed it.
A true must read for anyone who loves motorcycles, adventure, cultural differences, and travel. Three months after I finished, I missed "riding along" with Ted so much, I had to read it again.
Every wanderlusters must have, I would definitely recommend Jupiters Travels to people who not only love travelling but also are up for unplanned situations and moments along the way.
A journalist by profession, the story telling style of simon keeps you glued and wanting to know what lies ahead.
Quite a challenging task in times of war, lack of technological advances and cash crunches, this story is definitely the original inspiration behind the much popular "Long way round".
A definite read for all you travellers, I rate "Jupiter's Travels" by Ted Simon right at the top.
One of the best books I have ever read, hands down!
I can't believe I'd never heard of this book before.
Mr. Simon rode a Triumph motorcycle around the world over the course of 4 years in the mid-70's.
You don't have to know or care anything about motorcycles to enjoy this book.
I loved it so much I didn't want him to complete his circling of the globe.
This book may make you want to sell all your stuff, buy a motorcycle and ride off through the world.
I loved it!
I've already started reading one of his follow on books, Riding High.
This was more than a book, it was an adventure told through the eyes of an adventurer who used words to paint pictures of his 4 year journey.At times I was simply transfixed and enveloped by his use of the English language and the ability Ted Simon possessed to share more through his dialogue than many could share with a photograph.I loved every single page and would recommend all to delve into it.
I think this book is to be read as "the world according to Ted" moreover than a nice layout of what to be seen might you think about travelling the journey yourself. It's an expanation of how someone dealt with different cultures, assumptions, expectations, love and how things turn out (not) to be. Sometimes there are gaps, but "Riding High" fill out quite some niches. Although I can imagine that a four year's travel is hard to be put in one paperback..
Uh(So-so. Not the best book and not even the best moto travel book so far.Liked it up to about the middle, after that Ted turened too saturated with experiences and the book iteself gets boring.On the flit side - can be a great thing to read before long adventures as an example of how to to do it and how to not return home without learning anything.
I checked the timing, the plugs, looking for loss of power, speculating on whether a jet was clogged or whether the humidity was affecting the mixture.
By the time I stopped the bike and got to my gun it would be all over.
I was convinced, from the start, that merely to carry a gun invites attack.
I am not beyond believing that just having that gun in my pocket would be enough to get me shot.
"arriving in Africa was after all pretty much like arriving anywhere.you use your imagination and make it different" Those truthful lines are found on the first few pages of the book and keep in mind he wrote the memoir after the trip was complete. It's a brilliant travelogue for sure.
A journey like no other. A marriage of human, machine and nature (a polyamory for the 70’s after all). Piss and vinegar around every turn and an appreciation of being where you are and not so much when you will get home.
Amazing book.Read it on vacation and that made it all the more special. It’s hard to imagine travel like this back in the 70’s pre internet.Kelsey read this, review above. Finished November 27th, 2018.
