https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/437780.On_Nietzsche
1944/1945 Bataille, enfermo y solo. En la campiña francesa se dedica a escribir sobre su compañero de vida intelectual, rescatándolo de la vergonzosa apropiación que los nazis hicieron de parte de su obra. Mezcla de aforismo dionisíaco, fragmento delirante y diario de guerra in disguise. Texto de una vulnerabilidad increíble, este buen hombre siempre quemando naves.
Standing with GUILTY and INNER EXPERIENCE, ON NIETZSCHE is another one of Bataille's philosophical memoirs.
He works through the isolated desperation of the War, separation from lovers, and his own psychic struggles in these pages.
Using Nietzsche as the push off point, Bataille does a considerable bit of heavy lifting.
Always looking to lacerate himself to the limits of experience and ecstasy, he mediates on how intoxicating the nonknowledge of nothingness binds and liberates him.
Since appearance constitutes a limit, what truly exists is a a dissolution into common opacity rather than a development of lucid thinking.
battaille completely grasps the transgressive nature of philosophy. it has to be dangerous, it has to make you uncomfortable. in on nietzsche he defines the will to power as the will to evil, the will to transgress. not to say that we should go around raping and pillaging, but to transgress against ourselves, against time. thought, and life, should never be constrained.
This is almost scary. Georges Bataille's collection of essays on one of his great heroes, Herr Nietzsche. An overlooked man of letters in my opinion. And Bataille himself is not exactly overlooked, but seriously needs to be read and studied.
باتای اندیشه هاش مرتبط با دیدگاه نیچه ای و دوسادی هست. حتما این رو هم بخونید
We read about Bataille's fear of death (which he calls nothingness, particularly an "immanent nothingness", which he describes as going beyond being) and his overall negative state of mind, yet he chooses (or so he says) to laugh at his circumstances; to laugh at chance.Chance plays a bigger role in this book than in Guilty.
I suspect it's not a literal laughter, but more of a joyous acceptance (I think in the notes he pretty much says joy and anguish are the same, following Nietzsche's queue that the supreme good and supreme evil are equivalent).
Overall, I thought this book was very good and the Summa Atheologica trilogy, taken as a whole, is probably the best of Bataille I've read.
A fun but rambly exposure to Bataille's thought. At times inspirational at other times just pointlessly meandering. Still, been meaning to read some of his work for a while and this had all of the immoralism, lacerating, mystical 'nothingness' that I was promised.Not an in depth Nietzsche study, more inspired by than critical of.
Bataille's violent philosophical readings are perfect for a schematic understanding of Freddy.
Bataille takes chance to be a 'key theme' inhabiting Nietzsche's work.
By chance Bataille means non-goal oriented activity.
Anything done for the sake of a goal is a project.
The will to power, Bataille claims, is the will to live and live for no external goals at all.
But this is problematic for as soon as our goal is to 'live without goals' we have subsumed chance within project.Moreover, when we communicate, we risk ourselves.
.On Nietzsche is the third installment (of three) in Bataille's Summa Atheologica and it consists of journal entries Bataille made in 1944 while experimenting with chance and non-meaning.
"We were like a meadow about to be drenched by rain--vulnerable under wan skies. We had only one choice: to lift our glasses to our lips, drink softly of the immense gentleness of the turbulence of things.""Sun, clouds. Women all dressed up, looking like a gray day. The sun naked under the clouds"
Torn (lacerated?) between giving this 3 and 4 stars. On one hand, a truly honest attempt to understand and communicate, with some great insights and moments of beauty. On the other, a bit of a slog, stylistically. In the end, worth the time and effort spent. His concepts of chance and risk were especially enriching.
Definitely a fun, aphoristic read. Bataille doesn't really seem to be too keen on explaining the logical connections between his claims, but I suppose that part of his point is that one shouldn't have to be.
Bataille's laugh is forced. He looks around to see if anyone is listening. He is afraid.His is not Zarathustra's laugh.
Just amazing!
One of the most important books on the state of perpetuated boredom. 'Man would sooner have the void for his purpose than be void of purpose,' (Nietzsche, Genealogy of Morals) quoted in the book
a must read
