https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227711.I_Know_This_Much_Is_True
I never read this book until now because I also have a connection to one of those named in the dedication: to Sam Deglin, a high school friend who, along with her younger brother Randy, was killed in a freak car accident in front of our high school in January of 1997.
I didn't want to know how their deaths connected wtih the story, and I didn't want to be reminded at all of my hometown in southeastern Connecticut, where I assumed (correctly, it turns out) the book was set.I think enough time passed in order for me to feel OK about this book...and in fact, once I began reading, I couldn't stop.
I'm glad I finally finished because it was one of those books I kept thinking about when I was in the middle of it and I had trouble getting things done until I knew what would happen. I really enjoyed it, I think it's hard to write a book with such a complex story line which all ends up coming together neatly in the end. Like some how even the mysticism and twists weren't over done and felt like they flowed nicely. I think this is one of my favorites now honestly.
This book just went rocketing to my all-time Favourites shelf.
I cannot imagine spending over 20 hours reading a book and not loving it.On my eReader, this book was just 3 pages short of 900 pages, and not one paragraph, not one sentence, not one word in the book could be cut without doing the book (and one’s reading experience) irreparable harm.The main narrator of this book is Dominick whose twin brother Thomas suffers from mental illness.
Throughout the book, both brothers crash and burn a few times as they make their way on their journeys through life.
This is one of those books I read that has never left me.
It explores the nature of close family relationships and how you can love someone and also hate them and be embarrassed by them, and the guilt that results from these conflicting emotions.
The main character has a mother with physical defects which have inhibited her whole life, a brother with severe mental disabilities that have profoundly affected the entire family, and an abusive step-father who damaged everyone under his control.
I also loved the secondary story about the grandfather.
The book was an astonishing achievement.
$1.99 Kindle special today! This was a GREAT PAGE TURNING STORY!!!!Just sayin. :). I’d buy it for $1.99 ... but I already own it. Sometimes a reader is simply looking for a stay to lose yourself in. This book fits that need. This was another on of those 5 star books that I guess I never rated!I wasn't always active on Goodreads you know --There was a time I read before this site....lol
901 pagesI Know This Much is True by Wally Lamb is by far the best book I've read in a long time.
At one point in the book, I was reading the story of Dominick, who was reading the story of his grandfather, Domenico, who was telling the story of his wife's sister, who was telling the story of her mentor.
All of this should have been confusing and impossible to follow, but the author somehow managed to put it all together and keep readers up-to-date.
It seemed like he knew exactly when to stop telling one story and get back to another that the reader was wondering about.
If I had an All-Time-Favorites shelf, this book would definitely be on it!
Wally Lamb's I Know This Much Is True has addictive characters and is beautifully written with so much depth and feeling with absolutely no boring parts to detract from the story.
The only bad thing about reading this book was wondering how the hell the next one will ever measure up!
I loved the ending and truly wish it wasn't over!If you have not read this wonderful novel, you are really missing out, and do not let the 928 pages put you off as they will just zip on by.
Set in the fictional small town of Three Rivers in Connecticut (which is based on Lamb's hometown of Norwich is the same state), the novel opens with Thomas being admitted to the state psychiatric hospital's maximum security ward after he committed an act of horrible self-harm in the local library, convicted that it will stop the Gulf War from happening (the book opens in October of 1990).
adjusting to life all alone in a big city with just my baby daughter (who, at that time, I felt some ambivalence about) .
I felt very much like I was learning how to live with a consolation prize as a life.
I was very, very lost at that time.The protagonist had also had his life turned upside down by the death of his baby daughter, his wife leaving him and his brother's suicide.
In the end, he's restored.When I finished the last page of this book, I cried because my time with him was over.
Well...it's a testament to the quality of this book that I was willing to stick it out the entire 900 pages (well, 856, but who's counting?) If you can get past the intimidating bulk and stick it through to the end, there really is some quality writing here that is well worth the time it takes to read.The plot centers around Dominick Birdsey, the "sane" counterpart to his schizophrenic and paranoid identical twin, Thomas.
But I was so invested in the other 840+ pages that it was the characters and their quirks and their heartbreaks and their conflicts, not the ending, that stuck with me.
Dominick is as rich a character as I’ve encountered in a long time and even though I couldn’t relate specifically to the events in his life, his voice is so vivid and authentic that I feel like I know him… and his pain, his anger, become mine.So here are my rambling thoughts and interpretations, pared down to a relatively jumbled paragraph which still only scratches the surface…The burden of love.
The beauty of this story is in watching as Dominick, after losing his way time and time again, finally starts to make his way “out of the woods.” His entire life this man has been frozen in those moments from his childhood, which are revealed via flashbacks throughout the book.
The point of view, the colloquial style, the brutal light in which Lamb paints Dominick's life -- as the identical twin who is not the schizophrenic, as the survivor of abuse, as a parent that lost a child to SIDS -- is awesome.
In the last couple of chapters, everything is made right and the good guy wins.
I got so angry.
Sure, not everything is perfect, but it is much closer than it would ever be in reality.
That's what really got me -- this book did such a good job of slicing though the gritty reality and then BAM!
we have resolution on all counts, healing is happening left, right, and center, and everything is just hunky-dory.
i'm more bothered while trying to re-read this book by-Wrong narrator syndrome.
Who wants to read about someone thinking he's all that, a bag of chips and a value meal?Another thing is the dialogue is driving me crazy.
I just don't think real people are LIKE this, this simplistic and cardboard!The book suffers from Wrong Narrator Syndrome.
As I said above, Lamb has to cram every single tragedy in this book he can think of.
I've read young adult books that tackled these subjects a hell of a lot better.
Thomas and Dominick Birdsey are identical twins with very different personalities.
Meanwhile Dominick is trying to cope with his own life falling apart, and is holding a lot of hurt and anger inside.
The book goes back to a third generation in the form of a rather melodramatic journal about the life of the men's grandfather, an immigrant from Sicily.
Some of the best parts of the book are the conversations between Dominick and Dr Patel.
Dr Patel had been counseling Thomas, but soon realized that "there are two young men lost in the woods" and added Dominick to her private practice.
The longest book I've ever read (898 pages).2.
The most pages I've ever read in a day (300)3.
The first time I've literally had to put the book down and close my eyes so I didn't cry on it...Books get to me, I admit it.
And in the past year or so, I've read quite a few books that got to me...but nothing like this.
Hands down, the best book I've ever read in my life.
I could not stop reading.So my friends and I always joke about how we read depressing books, and this book would fit in that category, yet I wasn't and am not depressed.
another book that was like a sucker-punch to the gut. even with 900+ pages, i didn't want this one to end, though it ended beautifully. cried again at this one, which is rare. and it contains one of my favorite written sentences. i didn't care if it is an oprah book. i loved "she's come undone," but this book is leagues better.
Lamb's tale of one man dealing with his twin brother's schizophrenia is honest and true to life.
Even sadder is his indulgence in a "what if" fantasy seven years later, as he imagines taking her to dancing lessons, something he would have done if she hadn't died.At the time I read it, I had finally come to the realization that my husband and I would not be having any more children and I was feeling very sorry for myself.
On reading that passage, I realized that Dominick's wistful fantasy was my real life.
There was a review with date started and finished but it didn't survive the import from Shelfari. Slowly adding my missing books but too time consuming to review again.
Ug. I got physically ill reading this book.
IT is about mental illness, dysfunctional families, and domestic abuse.
It's the story of one family's dark secrets and recurring patterns of behavior largely succeeds in its ambitious reach.
It's about a sibling's responsibility, depicting the moral and emotional conundrum of an identical twin whose love for his afflicted brother is mixed with resentment, bitterness and guilt.
His twin Thomas's, is a schizophrenic paranoia and the resulting chaos in both their lives.
The book opens with a horrific scene in which Thomas slices off his right hand, declaring it a sacrifice demanded by God. AHHHHHHHHH.
For me the emotional complexity and intensity of the story instantly pulled me in and relentlessly riveted my attention through the 897 pages.
By page 250 I wanted to abandon the book altogether as I encountered some powerful emotional reactions to rape, child abuse, heinous domestic violence and SIDS.
By page 480 I was an emotional wreck and at times had trouble physically touching the book.
All 897 pages of this book were absolutely necessary to fully elucidate and explore the storyline.My very first Wally Lamb adventure was She’s Come Undone, a wonderful read with a central hero figure in Delores Price.
I mean no disrespect to the author, I'm just being honest.
And don't get me started on (view spoiler)[Thomas's death and the fact that it serves no purpose whatsoever (except maybe Dominick's need to grieve and self-discovery.) It was like everything they'd done thus far was all in vain.
Which brings me to my next point: I felt nothing for Thomas's passing.
(hide spoiler)] I am interested in some of Lamb's other work, but reading I Know This Much Is True isn't making me particularly anxious to pick them up any time soon.
I read the last 550 pages of this book in one day, disregarding the myriad other things I was supposed to get done.
The ending actually seemed a little too happy for the rest of the book, but had it ended any other way I might've wanted to jump off a bridge.
Parts of the book were so brutally human that they were difficult to get through, but difficult in the kind of way that wrenches your heart and connects you even deeper to the story.
I will be thinking about this book for weeks to come...this is what good writing is supposed to be.
In the first few chapters I would have given this a 5. Interesting plot, but way too long and ridiculous. The plot twists got more and more far-fetched. A page-turner--have to give it that--but by the 500th page (there are 900+) I started skipping around (too many fragmented stories everywhere, between the flashbacks and the entire journal of the narrator's grandfather) just to find out what was going to happen, without all the extra details. The interaction among characters was intriguing, but it got to the point where many were downright unlikable/unbelievable, thanks to their outrageous/disgusting actions.
I read this book years ago and just loved it. It still haunts me.
This book is loved by many but I am not among them. The premise: identical twins only one of whom is schizophrenic, attracted me to this book. However the portrayal of schizophrenia was not 100% accurate which spoiled the book for me. On top of that I did not like the mixed up brother, abusive step-father, horrific grandfather, weak mother, betraying wife, sick brother, or any other of the unsavory characters. If I cannot root for at least one character (no matter how flawed) I cannot root for the book either.
this book only gets 3 stars because in the end it held my interest. most days i find mr. lamb's writing tedious and sometimes far to drawn out. however, just like with undone, he picks up this ending book speed and wraps it all up in a neat bow. i am shaking my head but the truth is if another lamb walked into my life i would read it. I would probably also want to haul off and throw at it his head.
In addition to constantly repeating himself, as though you may have forgotten the relevant lessons, or stories, or who the characters are from 100 pages back, the writing is painfully slow...
Lamb's female characters are also distressingly uni-dimensional and flat.
Lamb also attempts a story within a story (grandpa's memoir) that sort of magically takes on the same voice and perspective as the main character's, despite the italics and different font to tell you that the speaker is a different person.
Lamb has butchered an interesting story concept with poorly executed, predictable, repetitive, and trite writing.
תומס מכנה את דומיניק בוגד אבל לאחר האפיזודה הזו ההתדרדרות המנטלית שלו כזו בוטה וברורה שאי אפשר להתעלם מכך יותר.אלה פירפורי השפיות האחרונים של תומס שהולך ודועך וקורס כמו חור שחור אל תוך עצמו.ביום אחד בשנת 1990, לאחר אישפוזו בכפיה של תומס להסתכלות בהאטצ', ויום לפני השימוע שאמור להיערך לו בוועדה המפקחת לגבי אורך האישפוז ומקום האישפוז, חיו של דומיניק מתמוטטים כמו מגדל קלפים והוא מגיע לתחתית שממנה ניתן רק לטפס: חברתו ג'וי מספרת לו שהיא בהריון ממנו למרות שדומיניק יודע שהילד לא שלו הוא לא מתעמת איתה.
I found this novel to be a well (if simply) written page turner that is ultimately undermined by its contrivances and by the author's seeming inability to let his readers draw their own conclusions or puzzle things out without having every last theme and story thread laid out explicitly.
And then repeated in case the reader didn't catch on.
I've read coloring books that are less insulting to a reader's intelligence.
The melodrama of the novel is off the charts as well.
I'm sure I'm leaving out at least half a dozen atrocities, but who's counting?
Counting his money.
A book filled with angst as one man alternates between love and hate. In his words and actions he betrays those he loves,as all humans do. He loves in a world of self hatred, regret and yet a longing to be free. It is also a portrait of how we are brought up by the measure of a parent's expectations and ideals. And the effect of guilt on us all. Grab th tissues-this is a must read!
