https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1181940.Client_Centered_Therapy
I'd read bits and pieces of this book over the last 12 months in order to get references for essays.
Having those snippets of Rogers' thoughts was useful, but I felt a duty to read from cover-to-cover the foundational work of the person-centred approach if I was serious in training to be a counsellor.
Many times I've had to put the book down to work through a chain of thought, to reflect upon my own values and ways of being (forgive the in-reference).
If I had some of the bricks for an edifice of a person-centred way of being, I think this provides the mortar.
I'll mainly be outlining what I interpreted as the general gist of the material as well as particular points that felt impacting along with page citations for certain references (wherever I've recorded them).Early on in the preface the reader is faced with Rogers' philosophical roots when he refers to himself as 'a midwife to a new personality.' (x,xi) This quotation is reminiscent of Socrates who once considered himself a midwife to men concerning their souls and self-knowledge.
The major stumbling blocks of this sort appear to be his concepts of "self" and "self-actualization." It should be noted for the author's benefit however that from the beginning he states that he feels words are incapable of capturing the entirety of the therapeutic process and understanding thereof.
The faculty of the Department of Psychology were basically experimentalists, not psychotherapeutically inclined.Thus, when I returned to college newly interested in psychology after being out of it during the 1971/72 year owing to problems with the draft board, there were few classes in the catalog which spoke to my particular interests in the field.
I read Roger's CCT in such a context, my second exposure to him, the first having been in an earlier EdPsych class.While I had liked his Freedom to Learn, I found CCT to be very boring after the first sections on at least two accounts.
Nondirective counseling is thought of as a process and experience in a dynamic relationship.More importantly, Dr. Rogers has endeavored to bring the realities of the counseling session – the anxiety, the despair, the hope, and the satisfaction – into the text.
Moreover, great consideration is given to the uniqueness of the relationship between client and therapist, culminating in the personal experiences of both.This review could go on for well over twenty pages if I was to cover the most important concepts developed in this book.
Very informative and a must for any model of counselling or psychotherapy
Devido aos seus estudos foi possivel criar-se uma nova abordagem terapêutica denominada "Terapia centrada no cliente / Abordagem centrada na pessoa", cujo processo consiste numa relação não directiva entre psicoterapêuta e cliente de total aceitação pelo terapêuta das emoções, experiências, ideias, valores do último.
Devido à criação de um ambiente de liberdade entre os dois, vai ser possivel ao cliente uma evolução de auto-conhecimento e aceitação de si mesmo mesmo e dos outros enquanto pessoas.
Neste livo, editado em 1951,Rogers aborda de forma mais técnica, apesar de numa escrita muito simples e clara, a sua visão dos conceitos e técnicas de psicoterapia.
I was a goodreads first reads winner of "Asses and Angels:A journey from Abuse to Achievement. It's the incredible story of the author Gail Black's life, and her ability to brush herself down and carry - not a mean feat - and not one that everyone can do. She suffered abuse, from religious to financial, physical, emotional and verbal abuse.This truly is a "must" read.
Essential reading for me right now, I love Carl Rogers but am feeling a little bogged down by his language in this book. Matbe it's just the look of the copy I have- it's a really old, musty copy I got for $1 from the school library sale a while back. I love Carl Rogers' ideas, though, and I find it really validating to read about his work with clients.
I really like Carl Rogers' approach to therapy, but I was hoping for more technique from the book. It was mostly research practices and some great client perspectives, but not a lot for someone who wants to learn about /doing/ this type of therapy other than the awesome base philosophy. Still looking for the right book.
If you're looking for a thorough grounding in counselling practice, then this is a must read.
Preparation for the start of my psychotherapy training
