https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202400.A_Russian_Journal
Introduction, by Susan ShillinglawSuggestions for Further Reading--A Russian Journal
It coincided with a time when author John Steinbeck and world-renowned photographer Robert Capa were at a loss for what to do next.
A scheme was hatched up to do a bit of light investigative journalism and see what was up with post-war Russia.This wasn't political, so much as a social call.
However, they were welcoming and generous.As it turns out, right after WWII, just about all people in Russia were curious about Americans in a big way and they had many questions for Steinbeck and Capa, so many that at times it seemed the journalists were becoming the story.
Steinbeck was employed as a war correspondent by the New York Herald Tribune and he continued to work for them.
The aim of the book was to draw a picture of ordinary Russian people; the focus was not politics.
That which Steinbeck tells us and which Capa shows through his photos are interesting but the visit is too brief to give a full picture.
Eventually with papers and permission slips in order they make separate trips from Moscow to Kiev, to Stalingrad/Volgograd and to Georgia visiting both Tiflis/Tbilisi and Batum/Batumi.
Yes, they spent time with ordinary Russian people, but the time spent was limited and often restricted.
Steinbeck met photographer Robert Capa and together they decided to take a trip to the Soviet Union.
They sought to discover the people of the Soviet Union not in the way that the popular, prejudiced, propaganda-heavy media had done and were doing (this was right at the cusp of the Cold War), but through their own eyes—to portray the truth of how ordinary people live, as Steinbeck puts it.
In A Russian Journal, published in 1948, Steinbeck recounts, chronologically, his trip with Capa and the various people and places they encountered as they made their way through the Soviet Union—from Moscow to Kiev, and from Stalingrad to Georgia.
You can find some of them at Magnum's online collection, and they're much better quality than the images in the book.b) I wish Steinbeck had published an addendum to this journal after Khrushchev's Secret Speech exposing Stalin's crimes -- I know JS wasn't trying to be political or anything, but I would've been interested to see his interpretation of that time period with retrospective knowledge.That said, I can't tell you how much I love Steinbeck.
Or to shame them for it.I love you, John Steinbeck.
One of the advantages of this approach is that it enables Steinbeck's natural openness towards the people of the USSR (perhaps not something that could have been taken for granted in those days), most of whom work and live well below the level of global consequence- Russians, Ukrainians and Georgians specifically, because Moscow, Stalingrad, Kyiv, Tiflis (now Tbilisi) and Gori, as well as a few collective farms in Ukraine, are the places the Soviets want Steinbeck and Capa to see.
Description: Just after the iron curtain fell on Eastern Europe John Steinbeck and acclaimed war photographer, Robert Capa ventured into the Soviet Union to report for the New York Herald Tribune.
A RUSSIAN JOURNAL is the distillation of their journey and remains a remarkable memoir and unique historical document.
This is an intimate glimpses of two artists at the height of their powers, answering their need to document human struggle.oooh, I am So going to buck the trend here - he(Steinbeck) offed the responsibility of reporting anything worthwhile here: some have attributed the woolly approach to the fact that he and his wife were having problems, others state that it was the strict guidelines laid down by the soviets.
Ce frumos e numai să-ți imaginezi confluența culturii occidentale cu cea orientală, darmite să te gândești că binețea poporului georgian este asemănătoare cu pacea pe care o emană Tibetul...De asemenea, jurnalul a fost scris în preajma anului 1947, când Uniunea Sovietică încă nu își revenise după război, însă cu toate acestea, întreaga populație sovietică (sub ochii aparent divini ai conducătorilor săi), muncește pentru ca ziua de mâine să fie mai bună.
Nobel Prize winning John Steinbeck and his photographer friend visit Moscow, the Ukraine, (what was then) Stalingrad, and Georgia in 1947.
They are not interested in important people, politics or 5 year plans.
In Moscow, there is an event where people congregate to inspect the military equipment the Germans left behind.
In Stalingrad people are living in the rubble.
Georgia has been relatively unscathed by the war and Georgians have adopted Ukrainian orphans.They are feted as important guests everywhere.
34 must be of Lenin Hills, but the vista hardly looks like Moscow which the Hills are said to overlook; the photo on p.
Words and ImagesSteinbeck’s “A Russian Journal,” first published in April 1948, was in a significant way similar to “The Log from the Sea of Cortez,” originally published three years later, in 1951--both books were collaborative efforts.
Whereas Cortez was a collaboration between a journalist and a scientist, the earlier Russian adventure was that of writer and photographer.
Although an eyewitness account of journalist Steinbeck’s and photographer Capa’s travels through Russia, Ukraine, and Georgia at the cusp of the Cold War, “A Russian Journal” is a work of art and literature, beautifully written and wonderfully documented with images of historical significance and everyday life.
Steinbeck and Capa have a great chemistry going on that flows throughout their travels.
This made me easily like the book, writing and content.
The bits that were dull were dreadfully dull but the interesting bits are more then enough to make up for it.Steinbeck does a wonderful job telling the story with a varied eye.
The photographs alone tell a wonderful tale and aid in the story, putting you right there and keeping you wondering about the life and times of the Russian people after the war.Some of my favorite bits were about the obsession the Russians have over soccer (as in most Europeans).
I was a student of Russian language and literature in the 90s and spent some time in the former Soviet Union.
I'm a big fan of John Steinbeck's novels and am surprised that it took me so long to read this.
Steinbeck and his friend, photographer Robert Capa had a project to enter the Soviet Union to document and photograph the lives of the ordinary Russian people.
It's basically a slice of life of the time and documents very well not only how Russian, Ukrainian and Georgian people live, but also the huge amounts of ridiculous bureaucracy of the Soviet machine.
I was surprised they were even allowed in at all but Steinbeck happened to get his papers signed by a Russian who enjoyed literature and believed Steinbeck when he said he wasn't political, didn't have any kind of agenda and just wanted to tell the story of what he saw and experienced.
I was shocked I had never heard of this book but apparently, it's been out of print.
P.S. I was shocked because I thought I had read everything Steinbeck had written.
Then I got another shock when I saw how many books of his I haven't read.
Steinbeck with photographer Robert Capa in the USSR, in 1947. Nice photos. https://www.publico.pt/2018/07/03/cul...
Snapshots textual and visual of post-war Stalinist Russia from two beguiling travelers who don't take themselves too seriously. Because Steinbeck openly admits that their observations are superficial and could never be otherwise, and because his affection for people everywhere glows throughout the book, one is never tempted to dispute his account. Cold War history is so often obsessed with the top-down perspective. This book offered many insights I had always craved during my Soviet history classes as I wondered about the people whose existence was threatened by the convictions and actions of those leading them.
On his left breast, highest up, the most coveted award of all, the Gold Star of a Hero of the Soviet Union, which corresponds to our Congressional Medal of Honor.
Instead of theater ribbons such as our troops wear, a medal is issued for each great engagement of the Soviet Army: Stalingrad, Moscow, Rostov, and so forth, and Stalin wears them all.
Nothing in the Soviet Union goes on outside the vision of the plaster, bronze, painted, or embroidered eye of Stalin.
At public celebrations the pictures of Stalin outgrow every bound of reason.
Every public building carries monster portraits of him.We spoke of this to a number of Russians and had several answers.
For a relatively short book, I still found it bogged down at times, especially the preparation for the trip and the digressions about (digs at) his photographer companion. The story was likely groundbreaking at the time, but struck me as dated now. A strong interest in either Russia, or that era, would be necessary to appreciate the book more than I did. Narration captured the tone well.
I had never heard of it.Steinbeck and Robert Capa, photographer, embarked on a six week Soviet Union tour during the early stages of the Cold War era.
Steinbeck and Capa tried to avoid meeting officials and ministers, but to find time to travel across the cities to speak to people and to understand the way they were living.
They tried for honest reporting without drawing conclusions.The book sort of reminds me of “Travels with Charley” because it is a non-fiction travel memoir.
Great book and a must read for those interested in history or just a good Steinbeck story.
I think that part of the problem with this one was that he seemed to be trying very hard to not be judgmental or show much at all in the way of opinions.
A quote that I thought to share:“There is very little laughter in the streets, and rarely any smiles.
People walk, or rather scuttle along, with their heads down, and they don't smile.
Perhaps it is that they work too hard, that they have to walk too far to get to the work they do.
There seems to be a great seriousness in the streets, and perhaps this was always so, we don't know.”
"Wherever we had been in Russia, in Moscow, in the Ukraine, in Stalingrad, the magical name of Georgia came up constantly.
People who had never been there, and who possibly never could go there, spoke of Georgia with a kind of longing and a great admiration.
And they spoke of the country in the Caucasus and around the Black Sea as a kind of second heaven.
Indeed, we began to believe that most Russians hope that if they live very good and virtuous lives, they will not go to heaven, but to Georgia, when they die."
Не мога да преценя до колко заплахата за война в момента е реална, тъй като новините са всичко друго, но не и обективно отразяване на фактите.
Но съм почти напълно сигурна, че обикновените хора не искат война – така както не искат война героите от репортажа на Стайнбек.
Лично аз се радвам, че е написал репортажа си точно по този начин и се е стоял настрана от глупостите.На места се смях с глас – начинът, по който описва отношенията си с Капа, със Суийт Джо, Суийт Лана, Г-н Хмарски и неговият гремлин са много забавни.
влюбилась в Капу
Приехали они, чтобы увидеть своими глазами страну, о которой столько ужасов говорилось у них дома - как раз начиналась "холодная война", только и разговоров было, что об атомных бомбардировках.
Задачей у двух товарищей было посмотреть, как живут люди, увидеть, с чем они сталкиваются, как действует советская пропаганда и, собственно, ответить для американского читателя на вопрос "хотят ли русские войны"?Очень хорошее и лёгкое чтение - и да, ответ будет дан.
Стейнбек и Капа были в Москве и пригородах, в Киеве и украинских колхозах, в Сталинграде и в Грузии - и везде их ждал один ответ на этот вопрос - и большое уважение к людям труда.
"I think it is the only meal or dinner we ever attended where fried chicken was an hors d'oeuvre, and where the hors d'oeuvre was half a chicken."Written during the Cold-War, the wonderful message of this book is that people are good.
The ones we met had a hatred of war, they wanted the same things all people want - good lives, increased comfort, security, and peace."Steinbeck and Capa saw a lot of the destruction in Russia from the second world war.
Machinery, farm equipment, livestock, buildings.
All farming and harvesting was done by hand, much of it by women.
Oh, yes, even though Georgia is described as a real jewel in Soviet Union, so I'm very subjective, the book is very interesting, enriched by photographs of Robert Capa and also his notes, one of my favorite is where he describes sleeping Steinbeck, three different types of him as he says.
The book has humor, sense, confusion of American visiting USSR and discovering people are all the same everywhere.
I'd recommend this book to everyone interested in history and to everyone who'd like to know John Ernst Steinbeck better.

После прочтения многочисленных семейных саг послевоенного периода «РУССКИЙ ДНЕВНИК» ДЖОНА СТЕЙНБЕКА и его лайтовость немного режет глаз.
Чего обьелся Стэйнбек в Советском Союзе - читай подробно (очень подробно) в его дневнике.«Мы знаем, что этот дневник не удовлетворит никого», кроме Познера.
Как минимум, меня удивила его рецензия на обложке.
И я ни чуть не принижаю мастерство Стейнбека, потому что он написал УНИКАЛЬНУЮ книгу, в которую вошло всё, о чём никому бы и в голову не пришлось писать: «Русские люди такие же, как и все другие люди на земле» только после смерти они надеются попасть не в рай, а в Грузию.
Two American greats decided to work together and visit Russia in 1947, they wanted to meet real Russians, see them at work and at play, and most importantly write about their journey and their impressions of a country recovering from war.
Steinbeck and Capa wanted to record the truth about their trip and not be influenced by propaganda from both sides (American or Russian).This is a great piece of reportage, Steinbeck and Capa work together creating an intimate travel book which is full of humour, hope, fear and what war does.
It is in essence an anti war travel book.
This was the book I was wishing for while I read Steinbeck's propaganda novels. It's a realistic-seeming look at postwar Russia from a very open-minded American in 1948. It's an area that we still really hear nothing about in North America and so it's a fascinating glimpse into a pivotal time in a mysterious place, from a person who had the courage to look at it with a minimum of prejudice.
Really enjoyed reading this. I'm a big fan of Frank Capa (life AND work--but mostly jealous of his life); so it was cool to see his pictures along with Steinbeck's writing. I particularly liked their gossipy comments on each other. A real "buddy" book; but also an interesting study in what Russia was really like behind the curtain in the late 1940s.
