https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/246362.Unfinished_Business
I wasn't disappointed; I really loved this book for its moments of cuteness, seriousness, comedy, and so much more.Right from the beginning it caught my attention; Vanessa's story was a complicated one.
And as time went I wanted that re-connection between her and her mother as much as they did.What was the best, and probably what made me love the book so much, was the characters.
I mean, who doesn't love the rekindling of an old romance?Overall this book, though short, was great and had me smiling the whole way through.
It's gradually revealed that her father (view spoiler)[ was an appalling man who cared little for her own feelings, kept her mother from communicating with her, and isolated her from the world (so much so that she knew nothing about the life of her best, closest friend)  (hide spoiler)].
Oh, and on top of that, (view spoiler)[ her mom is now marrying her best friend's dad  (hide spoiler)].
I certainly wouldn't have (view spoiler)[ agreed to marry him that fast, if at all  (hide spoiler)].
This was very boring and everyone talked like soap opera robots.
Argh! I love reading Nora Roberts and Sandra Brown because they deliver romance novels that are more mystery and suspense with a hint of romance. But that's the way it is now in their career. Early novels by them were of the cheesy romance variety. When I picked this one up, I did not realize it was a Silhouette, older book, and from page one, you'd know it for sure. It's too saccahrine but it is what it is. I'd avoid this in favor of a newer Roberts romance.
Not only is there the inevitable playfulness and immaturity that comes from young memories brought to the present, but there’s also the humor of watching a couple awkwardly adjust to their new playing field as adults.I admit to being a sucker for romances, but honestly, this story could turn typical lovey-dovey haters into appreciators of the art of love.
The humanism, relatable characters, and humor make readers turn the pages at whiplash speed, wondering whether Vanessa will mend fences or completely tear them down.What is a romance without struggle, right?
O seu regresso acaba por ser uma tentativa de criar novamente um relação com a mãe e recuperar os 12 anos perdidos.Todos já sabemos que a tia Nora segue sempre a mesma fórmula e é isso que faz dela uma escritora de sucesso.
Nestes livros mais antigos percebe-se que é quase sempre a mesma coisa mas eu continuo a gostar deles e é por isso que os continuo a ler.
Gostei da Vanessa e de como ela deu o benefício de dúvida à mãe e conseguiu perceber que o pai é que estragou a relação entre as duas.
An oldie but goodie...
That is what I think of unfinished business.
Nora Roberts never falls to make a down home romance sparkle even more.
Vanessa a girl who never became her own woman and torn between the life of fame and the pain of the past.
But so many unanswered questions that has pushed her to return home to the mother that abandon her.
With Vanessa's return old feelings come back to haunt and torture them both.
Somewhere in between the answers she need to find Vanessa falls back in love or did she ever fall out of it?
I truly loved it.
This book follows the normal Nora Roberts mode.
Girl meets boy, either old flame or new guy.
Problems and then happy ending.This one is about Venessa, a pianist who has travels all over the world and is very famous.
She comes home to try and heal old wounds with her mother and other things that she isn't even sure of herself.
She meets up with an old flame and things go from there.
If you are a fan of Ms Roberts you know that the path of love is never even or easy but fun to follow as she writes it.
It was a nice book the end was perfect not the best one but still perfect.And i enjoyed the book very much....
Este livro foi-me oferecido em Março do ano passado e, como estava parado na estante desde essa altu
3 STARS A world renowned pianist, Vanessa, returns home after the death of her overbearing father.
Vanessa is unsure of her homecoming - after 12 years she is seeing her mother for the first time and is still wondering why she let her go away to Europe.
Her mother is dating Brady's father and Brady, the former wildchild, is now a doctor and still charming and attractive.
The Cordina family makes an appearance...they do give a summary of the Cordina books - so you may wish to read them first.
This novel takes place in Boonsboro - which a new series by Roberts...so don't be surprised if Brady and Vanessa appear in them
Von J.D. Robb habe ich ja schon zwei Hörbücher aus der Eve Dallas-Serie gehört - Kriminalfälle mit Charme und Prickeln in der Zukunft - da wollte ich es auch mit den Liebesromanen der Autorin versuchen.
Ich denke, es ist wie bei Stephen King - entweder man mag ihn oder nicht.
Ein bisschen mögen geht nicht.
Ich denke, so in etwa ist das auch bei Nora Roberts.
Entweder man mag ihren Stil oder man mag ihn nicht.
Nun, ich mag ihn :)Dieser Liebesroman ist eine langsame Romanze, ein leiser Liebesroman und verdient von mir 08/10 Punkte.Meine Rezension könnt ihr hier nachlesen: http://sunsys-blog.blogspot.de/2016/0...
Apparently I didn't leave a review when I read this before. I didn't love it, so I get why, but in an effort to explain why I didn't love it, I should probably leave a review. Unfortunately, I read this two months ago and have forgotten most of my reasons.Basically self, I vaguely remember I didn't particularly care for Vanessa and thought the chemistry between her and Brady fell flat -- which I've noticed happens a lot with me and Nora Roberts (although weirdly, not with me and J.D. Robb -- go fig).
I have realized there are certain authors who you can not read back to back. These authors tend to have the same flow in every book that was the case of this and the last 3 books I have read by Nora Roberts. The flow: pitiful girl -> dreamy guy -> fight the urge to be together -> some event forces them together -> great sex/lose virginity -> doubt still being together -> guy professes love and is dismissed/does not receive reaction desired -> girl takes it back... they live happily ever after.
Okay so I didn't hate but the two main characters weren't likable to me.
Brady got too dominant to me especially when he said 'he just take's'...um big turn off and although Vanessa's verbal response was acceptable, her mental one wasn't.
Vanessa came across as hella judgmental.
She would learn one little tidbit but and run with it having to later realize that she should get the whole story.
Even though she was kept in the dark about things and had some understandable resentments she felt childish in her actions at time.Meh...I guess it wasn't my cup of tea and I was glad to be done with this business.
I liked the small town setting and the side-characters were good.
The dialogue was enjoyable.
The older I get the more I worry about the future of the romance novel industry if they can’t get a little more feminism in their lives.
This read a little to aggressive, a little too grabby and it made me bristle a few times.
I have read a lot of nonfiction so far this year and needed some romance to clear the deck of my brain.
If you’re like me and like to change it up a bit this is a fine book, serviceable, adequate.
It seemed like Roberts ran out of story and had to fill in the word count so just kept writing the characters explaining themselves like a psychologist might explain a case.
However, there is a love scene in this book that is one of the best I've read, absolutely fantastic poetic passion, profundity, mystical bliss, feral ferocity.
. ."I liked the characters fine, and I was very glad to see the protagonist, Vanessa, prioritize her career and take her time in deciding what she wanted with love and not let herself be swayed.
That seems like a good message to me.
This would be a 5 star read for me but it's an 80s or 90s Nora Roberts which means the male leads are more assault-y than I want them to be. This one wasn't as bad as some of her other early books, though, and it was worth a read.
I kept seeing Sunday's dinner every time Ham walked on scene.At the very beginning I did have hope for the main couple, especially when Vanessa's reunion with Brady (view spoiler)[ started with a closed fist to his gut!
Just "Meh." Obviously, Vanessa and Brady's personal story never really grabbed me.
It felt like Vanessa gave all her energy in that one scene and walked around with her own personal thundercloud raining down on her for the rest of the book.
A lot of bad things happened to Vanessa and Brady before they went there separate ways (without speaking), but there wasn't enough time to explore the complicated emotions that comes from that type of betrayal.
She sees neither her mom, nor Brady trying to stop her.
She doesn’t know why she chooses that place, probably she wanted answers from her mom, and from Brady in other words, she wanted to finish the ‘unfinished business’.Throughout the book you feel sorry for Vanessa, her feelings are constantly manipulated.
She always did what her father wanted, believing it was best for her.
She realizes her father had kept her in dark and left her with no choice but to realize his dreams for her.Meanwhile, she spends more time with Brady.
Brady and Van still didn't see eye to eye, but Roberts just tried to force them to be together in the end.
Brady was being unrealistic about the whole thing, especially with Van's career.
But of course, this doesn't matter anymore, because even after the advice Van got from her princess friend, she still chose Brady and some semblance of keeping her career.
I don't begrudge that choice per se, I'm not gonna be like she was being anti-feminist or whatever, Van made her own choices, that's what matters the most.
However, like Brady, she was being unrealistic about the whole thing.
I just didn't like the ending.
Good little story about a world renowned musician, Vanessa Sexton, who returns home after her father's death to the mother she hasn't seen or heard from in 12 years.
Not only does she have to deal with understanding why her mother let her go and didn't go after her, she has to deal with her high school love, Brady, who she thought unceremoniously dumped her the night of his senior prom.
I'm glad there was time spent on Vanessa's relationship with her mother.
I really liked her relationship with Brady.
Vanessa's internal conflict was understandable and not overdrawn.
I have read many of Nora Roberts novels and can't remember a single one i hated.
I've been in the last 2 yrs been reading books from other authors and it was by chance that i picked up Unfinished Business and i was reminded yet again why Nora Roberts is my favourite author.
I'm also touched by the love Brady still holds for Van despite the yrs she was away & he was quick, not at all shy to show how much she meant to him.
Sweet, cute and fast read...this is the perfect book to pick up on a rainy day, or sitting by the pool, or...well, anywhere.
The only time she ever went against him was when she dated bad boy Brady Tucker.Many, many years after being whisked away from her home, friends and her own mother by her father, Van returns home to figure out what she is going to do now that her father has passed away.
Good, fast read to enjoy anytime.
I LOVED IT!!!Brady and Van are reunited lovers with...hold on for the cliché...Unfinished Business.
It is everything a sappy romance is supposed to be and more.
More because of the growth of the characters, the unexpected turn the story took with Van's mother (should have seen it coming), AND the sweet innocence of first love.I want to read it all over again.
Just to be there with Brady and Van as they fall in love...again.
The torturously teasing bits of their stories we were given was simply not enough to satisfy.Great couple.
Great, sappy Nora Roberts romance.
Unfinished Business is an adult book through and through.
Yet, ignoring the questionable scenes that take place, it's a wonderful book about finding who you are, after not knowing for the longest time.
Upon her parents divorce, her father took her away from her home town so to make her a star.
When her father dies, Vanessa returns to her home to face her mother, high school sweetheart, and family friends for the first time in (I think) ten years, while, at the same time, trying to find out who she is without her father dictating her.
Concert pianist Vanessa Sexton returns to her small home town after being away for 12 years. There, she finds that many things are not what she remembers--colored by her only being 16 when she left. Most surprising is that her boyfriend Brady Tucker is now the town doctor, working with his father. Will they be able to rekindle their relationship?An early Nora Roberts, but still a good, easy read that can be enjoyed in an afternoon.
I really liked this. It was one of Nora's older books and a re-release. Much edgier in the romance area than we have been seeing in some of the more recent books. I understood Vanessa's trepidation and the time she needed to take to discover herself. Brady was one of my favorite kind of heroes. I usually don't like straight romance and require some danger...or a serial killer, or something. That's why I am so surprised that this kept me focused and interested.
Not bad, but not one of her best. The tired old trope of intercepted letters...that's kind of unbelievable when it's dozens of letters we're talking about. And how does a young doctor afford to build a spectacular house on his own land?The heroine had her moments, but sometimes I found her unsympathetic and cold to the extreme. It also grated that with her father dead, she could never stand up to him and gain some closure.
Unfinished Business - PG13Violence: noneLanguage: <60 swearsSex: ridiculously sexy and descriptive kissing; flowery descriptive intimacy that's not easy to skip because it's feeling-based but not explicitThis was my first Nora Roberts book. I thought it was fine, but I don't get all the hype. I'll try again.
