https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109395.Faggots
He was the lone voice saying to gay men - this hectic crazy unlimited drugs&sex&discoballs lifestyle is gonna hit a brick wall soon.
Larry didn't know what the brick wall would be, he just felt it in his bones.
Only a few short years after Faggots was published, along came Aids, and Larry was like hate to say this guys but I told you so and they were all aw shit Larry, you so did, you jerk.
I didn’t know any of this stuff when I read it, and I can see why they might want straight people not to know this stuff.
Through its overly complicated writing style, confusingly large cast of characters, and melodramatic and unrealistic dialog, it boils down to one impotent criticism: gay men make poor life decisions because they have daddy issues.The book is poor quality literature even if your view of books falls into the Wilde/Nabokov school that what determines the quality of the book is the quality of the writing and not the content of its message.
Portraying gay men as devil-may-care sexual and pharmacological hedonists, this pulpy tragedia views gay culture with a moralistic, judeo-christian lens that cannot move beyond its own biases when confronting sexually liberated characters, pigeonholing them into a single facile typecast stock photocopied from character to character: the self-hating fag.
larry kramer sure had problems with his fellow queers! a depressing and desperately unfunny read, written by someone who needed to let the love in a little. but hey, he went on to found act-up, so maybe this was a useful exorcism of sorts.
What I still to this day don't understand is when gay men who spend hours and hours in the gym to develop the supposed perfect body to attact only the same type of guy (if they are lucky).
But then some of those same men that only work on their outer-shells then head to these club and/or curcuit parties and continually pump their chiseled & well defined body with all sort of drugs.
So when you reach a point in your life and are done with 'THAT GAY SCENE' you are able to ascertain almost exactly what you want in a guy and in a long-term relationship.
And when orgasmic sex ceases to constitute emotional intensity for its participants, then what remains in the realm of sensory possibility for the deadened veteran – human torture, murder, the consumption of children?Drugs-and-fucking are still very much a mainstay of the gay lifestyle even today, post-AIDS, especially in countries where the simple act of being gay can be punished by death (simply think of vast swathes of Africa and the entire Middle East, while general intolerance and bigotry continues to simmer in countries like Russia).This is much more an act of defiance, I think, whereas Kramer’s point is that the energy and vitality expended on drugs-and-fucking would result in a Trojan horse type of situation within the gay community itself.Well, of course that particular dark horse was AIDS, and not even Kramer could have foreseen the subsequent decimation of the gay community that he loved, as much as its excesses and shortcomings exasperated and upset him.Of course, detractors have drawn an arrow-straight line between the excesses that Kramer depicts and the pandemic that followed.
I thought I was actually going to like Faggots.
The only other defense of the novel - that Kramer foresaw what others couldn't - is, well, insufficient.
As Reed Woodhouse puts it in his own critique of Faggots: 'I cannot like this book for that reason alone: a novel is not a prediction.' If only Kramer had stepped down from his pedestal, reeled in his pious moralising and tried to unpick what was really going on in the minds of those he lambasts, perhaps then his message would have resonated.
I first heard of this book when I read Randy Shilts' history of the AIDS crisis, 'And the Band Played On' about 10 years ago, and was aware of its controversial nature in both the straight and gay world.
Fred, Kramer's fictional embodiment, desires something different - the love of one person, rather than the physical pleasure freely available from casual hookups, and has his eyes opened to the whole scene by the behaviour of Dinky, the object of his affection, who plays him as well as a string of others along, and is fully embroiled in the hedonism.
This event concludes the book's opening act, continuing through the death of Winnie Heinz, the Marlboro Man, during the opening of a new disco the next night, and the start of the summer season on Fire Island that culminates in the novel's climax: the public, orgiastic double-fisting of Fred's paramour, Dinky Adams, in the "Meat Rack"—an off-the-beaten-path area of the Fire Island Pines.The amount of sex in this novel could rival all of Edmund White's autobiographical trilogy, but for Kramer, sex isn't always (actually, it's rarely) the self-affirming experience many gay men of his generation paint it to be.
However lost on critics, not to mention members of the gay establishment at the time, "Faggots" is a brilliant Mepinnean satire that takes as the object of its satire the intellectual conceit of gay sexual liberation, and the notion that gay culture would occupy a leadership position in showing America how to overcome its sexual prudery and commitment to values such as fidelity, monogamy, and true love. In fact, Kramer explores a subculture is which nothing is taboo except for the concept of mo
In fact, Kramer explores a subculture is which nothing is taboo except for the concept of monogamous love between men, which everyone says they want and no one does anything positive to achieve.The central protagonist in this epic sexual-cultural-historical novel is the screenwriter Ned Lemish, who is a stand in for Larry Kramer.
Kramer deplores the taboo on faithful love, as he deplores the situation where the only way gay men can communicate is through sex and more sex.
As I read Faggots, I imagined each character at some point laying in a chaise lounge and talking about their awful childhoods.
And I imagined Larry Kramer sitting right beside them with a little notepad where he wrote in big letters and underlined multiple times one of two diagnoses: "mommy issues" or "daddy issues".
This is a book filled with outdated psychoanalysis and characters straight out of Freud with mothers straight out of Roth.
This is the second least erotic book about sex I've ever read.
This is a book so chock full of cliches that it's impossible to read and not feel a little agitated.
I decided to read this book because Randy Shilts praised Larry Kramer as a revolutionary gay (and later AIDS) activist who broke through all of these boundaries and really garnered a lot of heat from all angles with the publication of this work of fiction.However, I was ultimately disappointed.
The writing was not entirely easy to follow, the prose was poorly written, and the characters were either flat or just plain un-memorable.Perhaps in a few more years I'll give this book another try.
For now I'm returning it to the library and focusing on books that can grab me in the first 50 or so pages.
Typical Larry Kramer. Bring your own iconic "cachet" to the table, mix in plenty of defiant f-you attitude, and adopt the posture of creating "a brutally frank document of a unique time and circumstance" and presto, you are free to verbally fetishize all the astounding self-indulgence and destruction of your past, and have it called literature.Get off the pedestal you put yourself on Larry, and remove your homemade hero medals. You're not a rebel. You're a grouchy old bipedal hard-on with a good vocabulary.Pure crap.
Na "capital homossexual do mundo" (Nova Iorque) dos loucos anos pré-SIDA, seja nos bairros gay de Greenwich, em Washington Sq ou Christopher Street, numa das saunas gay da cidade, na inauguração da super-discoteca gay mais incrível de sempre ou no paraíso homossexual à beira-mar que era Fire Island, ninguém se importa com nada que não seja o prazer físico e sensual, sexo desenfreado, em grupo, anónimo, leather, s-m, fisting, muito...
mas Fred compreende que procura apenas amor!Talvez o livro mais realista e profundamente conhecedor da cena gay novaiorquina dos anos 1970.
E enredo é muito solto, os personagens multiplicam-se de tal forma que lhes perdemos o rasto, mas no final da leitura ficamos com a sensação de que estivemos a apreciar um quadro complexo, uma obra-prima de um mestre.
Jerónimo Bosch, por exemplo.
The man Dinky was based on, and Larry Kramer's now husband, said Faggots was a complete assault on his privacy, with Kramer digging trash out of his wastebasket, like Fred does to Dinky at one point.
I would like to think that the Freudian "we're all looking for daddy's approval!" motives assigned to the characters are where the satire comes in, but I can't say for certain.This book is a look into a subculture of days past.

The sloppiest masterpiece I've ever read, which (maybe) describes a lot of homosexuals I've encountered.
FAGGOTS is scattershot, lyrical, multifaceted, hilarious, eternally quotable, and entirely mesmerizing.
The book is weirdly prophetic like that.
I'm not a huge fan of Larry Kramer, and while I almost wish I had never heard anything he's said in a public space because it colored the reading of the book, I can't forsake his presence in contemporary gay culture.
He's an oracle.I have never highlighted and noted a fiction book like this.
I didn't know fiction could have such a sense of urgency--a total, filthy insistence--until FAGGOTS.
As a kind of loving and angry document of what would turn out to be the last days of the pre-AIDS/pre-Ed Koch NYC bathhouse/Fire-Island gay scene, the book works very well, but only if you're willing to take Kramer's criticisms as his own.
Obviously a lot of people were really pissed off about the book when it came out and I can see why they might have been, but it's not my place to side for or against.
Sentence fragments should be consumed like trans fats, sparingly if at all.
Larry Kramer, however fills this book with nothing but sentence fragments and run-on sentences.
Add that on to the fact that the myriad of characters in combination with a confusing plot leads to a very poorly written novel.
I had high hopes for this book, due to the fact that it was written by an acclaimed activist, not to mention the founder of ACT UP, a leading organization in the fight against AIDS; however, I was sorely disappointed.
I think that this was a very good book that was overlooked by the gay community because it was written so intensly and passionately that the community didnt want the world to percieve us this way. I think that it was very much this way at the time it was written esp in NYC. Larry Kramer is an activist/aids survivor and politician. People either really like him or hate him. I like him and think that he has many sides that people dont always see. A lot of reasons that I like him can be found in his plays.
At that point I was involved in the community in a peripheral way, but back in college — from 1976 to 1980 — I had a circle of gay friends, mostly guys.
I said some of my gay guy friends could have dozens of sexual partners in one night in the city.
To a person, all said, "That can't be right." That hyper-gay male sexuality pre-AIDS was just hard to believe.God bless those days.
In other coverage of the AIDS crisis it is said that Larry greeted those disembarking the ferry at Fire Island on Friday nights with flyers that reported the latest HIV infection rates.He was not a popular guy.
"So, wearing a pair of Dinky's red-satin Champion boxer shorts, and feeling young and good and butch and wanted, Fred wandered around his would-be lover's space."'You don't talk to people when you cruise. The secret is to just look mean.'""Events were now passing beyond the realm of even Cary Grant.""'I love you so fucking much I can hardly shit,'""True beauty makes men dumb, ... 'Read any good books lately?' Fred could not resist trying on a beauty. No, Fred. That's bitchy. Don't become a queen."
The raucous, explosive, exuberant but cynical, tortured but unapologetic community of gay men who defined themselves through defiant sexual promiscuity, rejection of traditional relationships and re-claimed terminology that has since circled round several times back to offensive (there’s an amusing paragraph at one point about how much the protagonist hates the word “gay” and embraces the blunter “faggot”).
A community whose burst of relative freedom and carefreeness was short-lived, swept away soon after by the AIDS epidemic, but captured here before that time, as the protagonist meanders through a ceaseless progression of hook-ups among an ever-expanding cast of intricately interconnected characters, whilst agonising about whether he’ll ever find lasting love, and with whom.
Places them in a historical context, pre-AIDS outbreak, that kind of explains many things to those that maybe aren't familiar with the extremes of the gay lifestyle.
He classifies them into categories, he foretells their patterns and what would happen to them because of such-and-such, and it forces the gay reader at least, to look at himself, laugh at himself, and eventually feel kind of hopeless.
And in such a dirty sea, I'm guessing it's normal for the reader to feel a little bad for him, don't you think?
This book is Kramer's satirical take on the club/bath house/Fire Island gay New York scene of the 70s, a take which argues, in a nutshell, that all of the screwing and partying of the day was simply (or not so simply) a mass-misguided attempt by queers everywhere to look for true love and/or familial acceptance in all the wrong places.
Basically, this book seems to be Kramer saying "I think this way, therefore ALL gay men everywhere must also think this way".
But the sex is the conduit, the cause, the reason, the consequence, the main character.Fred Lemish' pursuit of Dinky Adams is heartbreaking and pathetic, but it's also transforming for Fred and across the chase, Fred reveals the Gay Landscape of the late seventies, with all its cracks and crevasses and cliffs and deserts...Where are the green meadows, he wonders.Of course, in the end, when the sun finally rises on Fire Island, and they are all present,the boys, the ones who paved the way as best they knew and could, when they are all sitting or standing quietly, brothers now, forgetting the events of the night, but only passing on the words, "I love you", I could see the dark tidal wave mounting in the distance.
I’ve been anticipating reading Faggots for a long time, and I really, really wanted to like it, but alas…I shouldn’t even put that ellipse there, only because Mr. Kramer uses them, along with a lot of other creative punctuation, throughout the novel, causing much distraction and frustration (for this reader anyway.) Set in the milieu of the late 1970’s New York gay party scene and written in a stream of consciousness style that is frequently funny, but at times maddening, the story follows many characters (too many) in the mostly nocturnal world of gyms, discos, parties, bath houses, and Fire Island getaways.
The whole thing feels like a stream of consciousness, gender-queer, introspective and extro-sexual gulp of an imagined life of the LGBT*QIA community.
At some points, it's so bizarre and edgy that it almost sounds like satire, but I think that's the best part: the author drags you to a threshing floor and says, "Listen.
My only complaint is that, because of the stream of consciousness style, slower readers (such as myself) might get a little lost with names that fluctuate (nicknames are included and used interchangeably) and because of the plot's pace, which is, "Rampant and everywhere."
For exactly 13,500 days — from June 26, 1944 (when the U.S. Army began standardizing treatment of syphilis and gonorrhea with penicillin) to June 5, 1981 (when the Center for Disease Control published a report on a disease that would later be called AIDS) — Americans could more or less have sex with one another indiscriminately without the imminent fear of death.
Kramer’s irreverently named book “Faggots” presciently detailed how the days of living never-ending sexual fantasies helped engender the nightmare of AIDS.As a 37-year-old gay man, few detailed narratives of a prurient nature -- such as those in "Faggots" -- shock me.
Little did Kramer (or anyone else) know at the time when he wrote this book (late 1970s) how prescient those words would actually be.


