https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38876.Once_An_Eagle
Once An Eagle traces the arc of a soldier's life: it follows Sad Sam Damon from his youth in a small Nebraska town (on the eve of America's entry into World War I) to his destiny in the steamy jungles of Southeast Asia decades later.
Slowly, inexorably, he does.(This authorial decision spares the reader what would've been several hundred pages devoted to a West Point education, so it's a good thing Sam enlists).
The reason this book is a hit with military-types is because Sam Damon is the soldier all soldiers aspire to be.
It was the only novel on the Professional Military Education (PME) reading list for the 101st ABN Div when I was assigned to it in early '80s.
It is simply the best look at military leadership I have ever read.
While the differences between the two main characters is so sharply drawn as to be slightly unrealistic, it is still an excellent look at what it is to be a leader rather than just a manager.I think we all have a little of both characters in us.
In many ways, Tommy was the stateside and familial linchpin that connected Sam to the humanity that existed outside of rank and uniform; her husband, who passes a considerable portion of the book overseas, fighting against the Germans, the Japanese, and the power-blind Massengale—finds a constant reminder in his wife of what, exactly, motivates him to put his life on the line in the name of a duty that such as Courtney value quite cheaply.As can readily be imagined, there are myriad ways a novel of this type—especially one that clocks in at a formidable thirteen hundred pages—could go wrong; but Myrer, for the most part, avoids the pitfalls.
So many military folks talk about what a great primer this book is on leadership, and I simply didn't find that to be the case.
War, like life, is simply not as black and white as this book would have it.2.
This book ignores the fact that naked ambition and concern only for outcomes is certainly a morally unattractive quality, but is likely necessary in the ugly crucible of war.
Caesar, Napoleon, Patton, MacArthur, and countless other commanders were more concerned with accomplishing a mission than the love and adoration of their troops.
I can't remember when I read it - could it really have been more than 40 years ago?
But, to my young, impressionable mind, I fear that this book taught me as much about service and discipline and honor - about what kind of soldier, leader, and man I wanted to be - as any ROTC, Army service school, or military history course or program.
I remember my father - my role model in the Army and in life - handing me the book and (me) thinking I couldn't possibly get through it.
"Sad Sam" Damon, who shuns the advice of everyone as a young man to pursue a military career, doggedly sticks out the drudgery of being an enlisted man pre-World War I, believing fully in destiny and that he will find his in the army.
It does make you burn that Sam is always second fiddle to Massengale, when Damon is so clearly a better soldier and a better man.
The scope is huge and yet the cast is fairly small, making it an intimate novel in many ways while covering an immense amount of ground and 50 years in time.I believe I read once that Once an Eagle is required reading at West Point.
My dad had an original copy and said he loved the book as well and that it had been required reading as part of his military work...War College perhaps?
I felt like as an Army brat growing up on base after base, I had a very limited idea of what military life was all about.
I liked that this book showed how military life affected people in different ways but that ultimately you and you alone have to live with your decisions for a very long time.
A very good read on military leadership, soldiering, military family life, friendships, and above all how to lead, the book follows the career of Sam Damon from WWI to Viet Nam. The chapter on the New Guinea Campaign is harrowing, humorous at times, and some parts made me misty eyed, Myrer's writing is so descriptive, I was looking for a poncho.
I highly recommend this book if your in the military or not, it's just as much about leadership for civilians.
I was thinking about what military fiction would be appropriate on Memorial Day and this title came to mind.
It's a classic, with fictional characters arcing through history, from World War I up until our entry into Vietnam.
Sam Damon, the protagonist, enlists, wins the Medal of Honor in World War I, then spends his time in the lean years up until he has to go fight in World War II.As a veteran I find the way his career track and that of his nemesis, Courtney Massengele, cross paths over the years.
The sacrifice of both the peace time and war time army is eloquently covered.While Myrer fictionalizes even some of the history, the core of the book rings true.A great, epic read, that I highly recommend.
One of the five books that I thought every officer should read.
This epic novel is follows the lives of two army officers from WWI to the Vietnam era.
It was made into a mini-series in the 70’s and has been reprinted by the Army War College.
Myrer has taken some of the most outstanding combat leadership of WWII (Darby, York, Truscott, Eichelberger, etc..) and crafted it into a historical novel of epic proportions, centering on his ideals of good and bad officership.
For an entire generation of officer’s, this novel defined a standard of ethical conduct.
Mandatory read for anyone considering a career in the Army.
Wow - what a work. One of the most enlightening, honest, complex looks into soldiering I’ve ever read. No wonder General McCrystal gave it such high praise. It is as dense as it is long, but it doesn’t bog down. Over and over it reveals layers to the lives and struggles and mindsets of the American military family. And it is literary craftsmanship at its finest too. Magnificent book.
Two ways to lead, you figure which one you are. Classic tale of military life rings true to a military man. Also a great story.
Virtually EVERYONE who reads this massive book rates it five stars.
I don't do nearly as well at this as I'd like--cruising the Internet is easier than using it to work on learning French at 50, for example--but I try, and Sam is my hero, someone who I try to emulate and whose fictional tale makes me strive to be better than I am.In modern life, we seemed to be surrounded by people who talk and talk and talk, but are *completely* unable to live their values.
This is a truly amazing book and has so many life lessons in there.
I was not in the military, but you can take so many lessons from this book into the business and the sporting world and shows what it takes to be a really great leader.
The author also makes the story more exciting when taking the first person viewpoint of many characters throughout the book.In the end it is kind of a sad book and brings forward the many realities of life.
I read it in the first years of my husband's Army career and found it extremely depressing.
The hero of the story is never fully appreciated by his military leadership, constantly being overlooked and overshadowed by a more charismatic officer, who probably could have coined the acronym 'CYA'.
I see that many reviewers admired the character of Sam and wanted to be an Officer like him.
Supportive military wives: read it to understand what your husband is up against.
Not just the combat, but the inner politicking that can break down a soldier or officer's desire to do what is best for country.
This is a spectacular book. I purchased it because I was interested in the overview of the timeline of 20th-century wars, connected by the story of a career soldier. Due to its size and subject matter, I was more than halfway expecting something dry and tedious, with cardboard characters to illustrate the history. I couldn’t have been more wrong. This is a stellar and tragic epic, peopled with passionately real characters, ultimately singing a profound song of peace.
Sam Damon is easily my favorite fictional character, and Once An Eagle has propelled its way towards the top of my all time favorite books.This book has taken me through a roller coaster of thoughts and reflections.
(view spoiler)[ From his marital problems, to those traumatic deaths, to his constant struggles with Massengale, and his eternal struggle with the greed and corruption of man, I always wanted Sam to finally end up on top for once, but this wouldn't be such a great, realistic book if that had happened.
I bought this book because I discovered it was on the required reading list at the US Military Academy at Westpoint.
This experience makes him an advocate for enlisted men and the disgraceful way they were treated by officers.
I think I have a greater understanding of why Academy grads have such a different attitude towards the enlisted ranks than non-grads.
I do find it interesting that an officer I knew who treated the enlisted worse than any I served with rose through the ranks like Myrer's character.
Perhaps "Once an Eagle" should be required reading for Officer Candidate Schools and perhaps even NCO Schools.
It is thick but every bit as timeless and brilliant as a couple of other sweeping epics, the Illiad and the Odyssey.A quick look and it is obvious it is about war and soldiering, however, it is so well crafted that it would leave any reader uplifted and touched.
Yes, war is ugly, yet the virtues that the hero, Sam Damon, possesses are what we should hope that all of our soldiers ascribe to model their own values upon.
Hard to tell.Although much less admirable, the anti-hero, Courtney Massengale, is an obvious synthesis of the 'careerist' officer who is unfortunately still so common today; but he is actually the perfect foil to contrast Sam's every virtue.
Myrer emphasizes traditional military virtues in describing Damon's wars, but devotes at least as much space to describing life in a peacetime military.
Myrer seems deeply ambivalent about the necessity of war: Damon's experiences lead him to prophecy the dangers of the military-industrial complex after WWII and to plead for the US to change its frame of mind regarding the rest of the world, not to assume an adversarial relationship but to work for peace.
It is a great work of military literature, standing far above the standard "shoot-em-ups" the genre is known for.
I hadn't read it then, but the hero of this book is pretty much the upright, shining knight in (khaki) that I wanted to be.I didn't read it until much later (1993), but Sam Damon is the Army officer I dreamed of becoming: decisive, clear-sighted, morally upright, compassionate about his soldiers, and even well-read.
He is clearly contrasted with Courtney Massengale, the shiny careerist staff officer that is so easy to despise (and that I could have become).There was a 1976 TV miniseries made from this book, that I saw pieces of when I was small.
It is like the pinnacle of all slice of life stories as it follows Sam Damon from boyhood through WWI, WW2, and Vietnam.
When you finish reading it there is a hollow in your heart from living a whole other life for a time.
I will admit that the WW2 section is my favorite, no surprise there, but it is also the hardest part to read.If you are a history buff especially of modern military history, I can't recommend this massive book enough.
:-)Content Warning: This is a story about people living life.
Not sure about the category for this one either. Maybe Historical fiction since it's about the World War. To tell you the truth, I read it long ago and don't remember a lot about it. It's very long and that's generally not a good thing in my mind. But I've hung on to it and as I remember I enjoyed it fairly well.
I loved this book when I read it in my early teens. Read it again later. One of my favorite books ever. Great historical fiction.
I thought it was a great book when I was 16/17, pretty good when I was 25, and marginal when I was in my 40s.
It's not bad when you're more idealistic than experienced, but it is hardly the 'great novel' of American soldiering.
Anton Myrer gave his characters some personal flaws but made them black/white or good/evil on the battlefield.
In my 32 years of soldiering, I found most officers to be somewhat the reverse; that is, they were less than stellar on the battlefield but led reasonably virtuous personal lives.
Once An Eagle is the story of a soldier, from his time in service during WWI through his death during the opening days of Vietnam. Anton Myrer's writing and research were so good, I thought this was a biography until I read the ending "About the Author" notes. I would like to find this un-condensed book for my collection.
Extremely long and a little "too good to be believable" at points but the overall book is absolutely worth a read and it's lessons on leadership are incredibly well taught.
I can't tell the bent of the author although I did read the review that it was a great anti-war book.
I thoroughly enjoyed it and learned so much about each of the times that it covered.
It seemed a very realistic account of what a career soldier would experience.
Maybe my puzzlement is that so much of the questioning that he does with people and motivation and destiny can be answered in scripture and it is very hard to read a book like that without thinking of the stark absence of God in his life.
4.5 stars.
Wow, what a novel.
This epic tale covered so many thoughtful subjects--marriage, war, racism, economics, goals, honor, hard work and integrity, leadership, human nature, fear, world politics, understanding others' cultures, friendship, loyalty .
Following one soldier through a lifetime of service was especially effective, I thought.
It really allowed you to gain new perspectives as he advanced through the ranks, through the different wars (and times of peace, which may be just as unendurable in some ways), and through progressing stages of his life.
I didn't find it nearly as interesting or compelling as the rest of the novel.
The plot follows the fifty year careers of two rival Army officers; Damon and Massengale.
As both men rise through the ranks, Damon earns the respect of his men by being a frontlines officer, while Massengale, using his family's political power, is more bureaucratic and leading from the rear.
Anton Myrer does a good job of illustrating the type of leader one should strive to be, the problem is the novel becomes a little melodramatic at times.
There are numerous scenes with the officers and their wives that help with character building doesn't move the narrative forward; something a good editor could have fixed.
