https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40383078-the-tibetan-book-of-living-and-dying
I have been reading this book since I got it in 2002.
I read, put it down and pick it up again in 3-6 months.
I started this book while in a job that I dealt with patients who were living yet quickly dying - it helped me deal with my questions of death.
And with dealing with those questions I learned about life.
It's ironic that when I pick it up to read, there is an insight to something that's been going on in my life.
No, yet this book has brought me closer to my own religious and spiritual beliefs - because God is bigger than one religion.
The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying is a manual on how to deal with death, but I would argue it has far more to do with life and the living.
It is about understanding death and how it will, ultimately, come for all of us.
We have one life so we should live it as fully as possible, being mindful in every single situation.
It’s not just about how to deal with the consequences of loss, but it’s about understanding how to deal with life.
This book gave me the kick I needed and helped propel me out of bad mind-state.
I cannot say that this was an easy read as it is quite spiritual and me being a westener, found the wording quite hard work at times, especially when I was so so tired and scared.
I remember sitting by my son's bed reading the dying part of this book while he slept.
Most of us wish to rail against our gods when someone so young is dying, especially if that young person is our child but Sogyal Rinpoche's words helped me to accept my son's approaching death calmy and in the final days encourage him to go on his way with my blessings and love.
Há algo com que possamos de facto contar, que sobreviva ao que chamamos morte?""Saiba que todas as coisas são assim:Uma miragem, um castelo de nuvens,Um sonho, uma aparição,Sem essência, mas com qualidades que podem ser vistas.Saiba que todas as coisas são assim:Como a Lua num céu brilhante,Em algum lago límpido refletida,Ainda que para esse lago a Lua jamais se tenha movido.Saiba que todas as coisas são assim:Tal como um mágico cria ilusõesDe cavalos, bois, carroças e outras coisas,Nada é como parece”“Por mais que a verdade nos esteja sempre a interromper, preferimos continuar a tentar manter a farsa, com uma petulância vã”...Pois eu estou Farta!
I'll admit I haven't finsihed it yet...it's one of those books you read a little in, ponder it, leave the book on the bedside and then read some more in later.
I'm on page 134.... reading slowly.Every time I read a paragraph in this book, I can feel my pulse slow, & my heart open. I drop back into myself and remember why I'm here. I remember to be a human being & not just a human doing. This slowing has happened enough that now even just looking at the book across the room has a similar effect. My mother loaned me her copy -- not sure she's gonna get it back soon as it is such a powerful reminder for me.
First, this is not a direct translation of the Bardo Thodol, commonly known in the West as the 'Tibetan Book of Living & Dying.' Rather it is a broad introduction to Tibetan Buddhist beliefs including the author's interpretation of the teachings contained in the Bardo Thodol.
Sogyal Rinpoche received teachings from an early age by highly respected teachers such as Jamyang Khyentse Chokyi Lodro, and Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche.
He liberally quotes his teachers throughout, a strong point of this book.'The Tibetan Book of Living & Dying,' has a new-age syncretic tone, and has the feel of being written to especially appeal to Western readers unfamiliar with Eastern spiritual traditions.
The Essential Phowa practice has sustained me through so much loss and I have practiced it countless times over many years.
The more you practice the Phowa the more it becomes part of you.
The most important time to practice is right at the moment of death and it was only because it is so much a part of my life that I was able to immediately move into the practice in spite of my pain and distress.
This book deepened my compassion and gave me a tool that is invaluable..I am so grateful I found it.

I read this book and took from it what I needed and left the weird stuff for others.
What I took was significant and very helpful, and I keep this book around to re-read those passages.
I believe anyone can find something in this book useful to them personally, but probably not all of it.
If you are broken and as spiritually wounded as I was when I began this book, also prepare to be overwhelmed.
I can't imagine anyone not gleaning something useful from "The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying."
They all talk essentially about the same thing, but the human urge for separation and conflict has roughened the edges of each somewhat so that they don’t fit together as harmoniously as they should, to the point where they often seem more like competing businesses than reflections of the same divine truth.This book doesn’t tell you that you should become a Buddhist and that this is the only way to attain salvation and avoid hell.
It all makes perfect sense, wherever you’re coming from: we have to get back to incorporating death into our everyday lives, because just not thinking about it is the most unhealthy approach of all.
And when the time comes that I or a loved one has the opportunity to prepare for death, I again expect to keep this book close at hand.I read this book right after walking away from a serious car accident with only bruises.
My years of yoga training served me well during the accident and its aftermath, but I knew that it was time to open this book and dig more deeply into the process and meaning of life and death while I still had the chance.Within, I found practical, down-to-earth advice on how to live, why we live, and how to die.
What I really love about this book is that it puts the ancient teachings of Buddha in a modern context and addresses many alarming problems with modern society that are leading our world toward destruction.
One of these problems is that Western society has dismissed spirituality in favor of a "see to believe" attitude based on empiricism, the senses, and on the limited perspectives of humans.
Now that I have finally finished reading and understood the many messages of this book, I will be looking for more books on Buddhism and eventually plan to find a teacher or temple.
A manual for life and death and a magnificent source of sacred inspiration from the heart of the Tibetan tradition, The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying provides a lucid and inspiring introduction to the practice of meditation, to the nature of mind, to karma and rebirth, to compassionate love and care for the dying, and to the trials and rewards of the spiritual path.Sogyal Rinpoche was born in Tibet and raised by one of the most revered spiritual masters of this century, Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö.

Sigh, I'm not so keen on this whole belief in literal reincarnation business (even with the nuances he throws in).----I eventually gave up on reading this book around chapter 17 or so.
It just drove me batty, the luminous this and extraordinary that.
(I will say that chapter 11 of this book is actually really really good, with the exception of a couple of crystal-radiant paragraphs, it showed a genuine compassion for the dying, very touching, offering the dying what they need rather than what you want).
Why do we want things to be so amazing and mindblowing?
Couldnt finish it, what a droll read, no offence placid buddhist dudes, but you are boring as batshit.
I believe it is one of the most important books for anyone in the modern world to read.
The premise as I see it is: 1) throughout the modern world, our fear, avoidance, or shrugging off of death and dying is an enormous cause of our personal and collective spiritual suffering, as well as social injustices and environmental unraveling; 2) the possibility of understanding death clearly, using our lives to prepare for death, and wholeheartedly living our lives free of suffering is available to us in every single moment; and 3) there is a path by which to practice the integration and embrace of death & dying into our lives.Besides illuminating insights into some of the most persistent questions of what it means to be a human being, it's written in extremely conversational and accessible language.
Whatever happiness and comfortableness we see in this life is nothing compared to the 'state' if we able to achieve after our death.According to Buddhist philosophy whatever we do in this life is to achieve liberation of our mind (I couldn't find the word salvation anywhere in this book) which is a all free formless, mediumless state; Bodhisattva or Buddha.
Again try the same for the liberation of our soul or mind to attain Buddhahood and it is an endless cycle of life and rebirth called samsara.
I appreciated a look at life, death, and justice from a completely different perspective.
It also does represent a considerably more balanced perspective on life and death than most of American culture has at present.
The discussion of science and religion at the end should not have been attempted.
Science is a Western formulation; its constructs simply have nothing to do with Eastern ones.
In general, the pursuit of science ignores religion.
But Sogyal Rinpoche cannot do the mathematics required to understand the physics on which he is commenting.
Therefore, he cannot understand it, and cannot hope to meaningfully discuss how it might relate to his beliefs.
An extremely important (and relevant) carry-along during my half-year trip to North India, Nepal, and Bhutan.
Really, TBLD is just another book that explains the "intermediate" or "transitional" states of life and death, which are otherwise known as "bardos."I don't mean to suggest that Rinpoche totally sold out (as some refugees have suggested, for whatever reason), wrote about a topic of Tibetan Buddhism, and articulated it in such a way that Western audiences groveled for more insight.
Rather, he's a very thoughtful writer who has done a very good job in conveying Buddhism to a particular group of people.I actually found myself delighted reading his account of Tibetan Buddhism.
Despre spiritualitatea vesticilor autorul spune: „societatea modernă este în mare măsură un deșert spiritual în care majoritatea oamenilor își închipuie că viața aceasta e tot ce există.
Fără o credință reală sau autentică într-o viață viitoare, viețile lor sunt lipsite de orice semnificație ultimă”.Un proverb tibetan citat în carte mă convinge și mai mult că întreaga Înțelepciune a omenirii a fost una la începuturi și apoi a început să se fărâmițeze de-alungul secolelor, ajungând la sofismele și „newspeak”-ul de azi:„Nu poți spăla de două ori aceeași mână murdară în același râu”Păi asta e identică cu maxima lui Heraclit: „nimeni nu se scaldă de două ori în același râu”.
Am apreciat în carte învățăturile despre Buddhism, în special varianta tibetană.
Lama Sogyal Rinpoche đề nghị nên đọc 4-5 lần, trước khi có thể thấu hiểu những kiến thức sâu sắc về tâm linh được trình bày trong cuốn sách.
Mặc dù chỉ mới thẩm thấu được một phần nhỏ kiến thức về sự sống và cái chết, tôi xin cảm ơn Lama Sogyal Rinpoche về những gì ngài đã trình bày và mong muốn lưu lại, gửi đến các sinh linh có tình cảm trên trái đất.
Tôi còn phải đọc thêm nhiều lần nữa, trước khi có thể viết một nhận xét trọn vẹn cho cuốn sách quý này."Cảm ơn đời mỗi sớm mai thức dậy ta có thêm ngày nữa để yêu thương".
Scientists recently discovered what happens to the body, and in what order, as its dies. Their discovery replicated what Buddhism has said for millenia as outlined in this book. However, The "Tibetan Book of Living and Dying' continues with what happens to 'you' next, after you're dead, and if for no other reason it makes this book a must read.
He went on to study with many other great masters, of all schools of Tibetan Buddhism, serving as their translator and aide.Sogyal's greatest gift is his ability to explain complex, esoteric teachings to Westerners.
Used extensively by hospice professionals, by psychologists and counselors, by doctors and other health care professionals, it is probably the best book about dying ever written.Few books are as comprehensive as this; you can literally begin reading the book with no knowledge of Buddhism at all, and by the time you are finished with it you will have a deep, personal understanding of Buddhist teachings and how they relate to the way we live and the way we die.As Sogyal explains in his introduction, it is impossible to understand the The Tibetan Book of the Dead outside of the culture and spiritual tradition that produced it.
Sogyal Rinpoche imparts his Tibetan Buddhist tradition with the best of his ability - “what is I hope from this book?
To inspire a quiet revolution in the whole way we look at health and care for the dying, and the whole way we look at life and care for the living.” In that he successful imparted his knowledge of the care the dying deserve.
How to really be there for them as a compassionate presence, without ego and armed with forgiveness and love, as they transition into the most vulnerable state of their life.
And to embody that same compassionate, kind heart in this life.
That alone was worth reading this book.
well now i must say this book is really meking me want to return to my ow religion not in the form that i used to know!
in fact by reading this book i find some unfathomable parts of my religion exolained (not that my religion is hard...in the contrary its really easy but there is no one who can explain it well) so every page and chapter i read makes me want to read more and understand more!
I read this book when I was 30.
I gave it to my mother then, she was 60.
I feel this book gave me a way of looking at mortality, and my own inevitable death one day, differently, hopefully more gracefully.
I hoped it would do that for my mother.
Now, she is old enough to be failing, and I want to ask her to read it again, but somehow I can't.
Yet, I believe this book holds many keys for a gentler parting.
I want her to be at peace and this book helps that to occur, in my way of thinking and seeing.
This is a book to be slowly read and reread, to be mulled over, to contemplate.
It is not something one reads cover to cover like a novel.
There's too much to absorb.
It's book to keep going back to.
If there's one thing we all need to learn how to do, it's dying.
And I don't in any way mean this in a morbid sense, for if we learn how to die, if we truly accept our mortality, we finally learn how to truly live.
Thus, in learning how to truly live, we become human BEINGS rather that human DOINGS.
No other book on earth contains the precious wisdom that this one does. When I read it in 1994, it both saved and changed my life, as it has countless others around the world. Rinpoche, I owe everything to you.
