https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222932.The_Stones_of_Florence
I loved reading this book. It is not meant to be a travel guide at all, but I would highly recommend it for anyone planning to see Florence. It is a long and very well-written essay about every aspect of Florentine life. As you read through the leisurely chapters you get a wonderful mixture of history (Medicis), literature (Dante) , art (Botticelli), architecture (Brunelleschi) and social commentary from someone who lived there and truly appreciated this amazing city.This book has inspired me to learn more about Florence.
There's so much packed into 230 pages that one reading isn't enough, unless you are already an expert.This excerpt where she talks about the Mannerists (a subset of Florentine artists) gives you a taste of her learned snark:Iridescent or opaline colour, used by Andrea [del Sarto] for religiose effects of light and shade, became the specialty of the Mannerists, who loved the two-tone effects now found chiefly in sleazy taffetas popular with home-dressmakers for an ungainly girl's first 'formal' - orange turning yellow, flame turning red, lavender turning rose.
The Madonna is wearing a two-toned pinky purple dress with peach-coloured sleeves; Saint John the Baptist has a Nile-green shoulder-throw and a mauve toga; Saint Jerome's bare ancient shoulders, shrunken neck, and ferret-like head are emerging from what is best described as an evening stole, in dark grey iridescent taffeta.
Very useful for thinking about the 14th century and its role in shaping the Renaissance and Florence more generally. This has a lot of good insight into Florence's history and character (for want of a better term) and the ambivalences and frequent turn-arounds which mark its cultural evolution. It also runs on a little long on a number of the frescoes, which gets to be tedious reading. Glad to have read it, but got bogged down in spots.
I read this book at the same time as The Food of France, by Waverly Root, and came to the same conclusion about both of them.............essential reading about the places, best digested in small bits here and there, not read cover to cover. Both from the library, so I'll buy both and enjoy them for years.Both written in the late 50's, rich with Floretine and French history, art and food, sprinkled with tidbits many of us don't know about the history/culture/food/art of both places.
Sometimes you want to be somewhere other than where you are, but lack the funds to make it so. This stream of consciousness (for lack of a better description) romp through Florentine history and art history fills the void. Don't try to make it something it's not - just read and imagine the people while googling the art.
No es un libro de historia, ni de arte; tal vez es superficial y algo caprichoso, pero se lee con placer y es un perfecto acompañamiento a un viaje por la maravillosa cuidad Toscana.
Tal vez gracias a este libro permanecerán algún tiempo más en mi memoria Brunelleschi (Duomo y Capilla Pazzi en Santa Croce, Sacristía de San Lorenzo, Palacio Pitti), Fra Angelico (Anunciación en San Marcos), Donatello (Anunciación en Santa Croce), Miguel Angel (David), Masaccio (Trinidad en Santa María Novella), Giotto (Campanille, Cristo en Santa María Novella), Ghiberti (Baptisterio), Alberti (Santa María Novella), San Miniato...
1950s intellectual's version of light travel reading--erudite, eccentric perspective. Does for Florence what Edmund White later does in his books on Paris. Read it while in Florence and sort of wish I'd finished it before I got there so I could have seen the city through McCarthy's eyes.
What. A. Fabulous. Book. And. Story.
Intellectual history of Florence and its arts for the traveler up through 16th Century. Written with a panache that is usually missing from the "History" section of your typical Guidebook. I don't know if there is a "coffee table" edition of this book; reproductions of the paintings mentioned would have helped. If I ever spend any serious time in Tuscany (i.e. weeks/months) I would definitely consult this book again.
This book is tells us almost as much about the author’s sometimes acerbic views as it does about Renaissance Florence. The art layout is great and the style of writing informative with witty asides on politics, personal details and pleasurable in its erudition. The writer was a friend of Hannah Arendt, an unapologetic intellectual and a fighter for the truth.
McCarthy's essays wind with acerbic style through Florentine history, bringing to fore the city's renaissance past against the background of her writing's present (1959).
And this is a great magic trick permitted by McCarthy's style, swift and elegant, and her great cultivation--she handles excellently every topic, from the art to the most peripheral questions of Tuscan politics, that churns out of her broad, smartly tangential essays.
For the dreamer, though, McCarthy's book is without flaw, and this lover of the city can think of no better way to revisit his favorite Italian town without suffering those long-distance flights.
Mary McCarthy's book first published in 1956 regards Florence, Italy.
However, remarkably, by the end of the book I found myself quite excited and looking forward to my upcoming visit to Florence, Italy.
The way that Mary McCarthy talks about Florence is rather like having coffee with her and hearing her go a and on about this and that covering the various ages, artists , architect, the Medicis and etc.…with a lot of interesting insight and stories but all the while she is assuming I know more than I do about Florence.
This book reads like a love letter to Florence.
As such, I think it's better to read this after you have been there rather than before--it's not the first book to read to get to know Florence.
It is also full of confident statements about Florence, Florentines, art, history, and everything else.
The experience of the past in Florence is immediate and simultaneous--she creates an aggregate rather than a linear narrative (which is hard for me, both because I don't really know all the history in order and also because I'm a historian and I like it linear).
This is Mary McCarthy's better known companion travel book to her "Venice Observed." Both books are compilations of history, art, literature, politics and societal customs laced with the author's wry observations. Too overwhelming with minutiae and esoterica to serve as a guidebook. I nonetheless got a spirit of the place as she knew it once upon a time, and which may still resonate in the present.
A hatchet jobWe live in Florence half of the year and it is clear that McCarthy is blind when she trashes what to us is the jewel of the Renaissance. It made me sick to read her continuous fault finding. She has virtually nothing good to say about Florence and as a guide to understanding the city she totally fails to offer anything of value. Don't waste your time or money on this hatchet job.
This book has been described as a love letter to Florence and that is very accurate. Delves into the Florentine mindset of yesterday and today - political, artistic, physical, philosophical. Lots of verbal descriptions and scene settings. Would have really loved this book if it had included pictures of the many paintings and architecture included in the text.
Ni guide touristique efficace (car trop peu organisée et sans structure) ni essai holistique « Stones of Florence » se place entre deux chaises en mettant bien trop d’informations historiques sur trop peu de place. Une déclaration d’amour à l’une des plus belles villes du monde, certes, mais une déclaration mal exécutée.
Interesting and fascinating cultural and social history of this city i will be visiting in a few weeks. at times i found it hard to follow who was allied with whom and who were sworn enemies. Yet again, it is Italy, isn't it? Well written in a narrative style.
I loved this book. Highly literate, engaging, flowing prose, and a sense of humor. What's not to like?It's worth noting that this is *not* a guidebook. It's *not* organized - more like sprawling observations about the history of a city the author loves.
Have a pen and paper nearby to take notes when you read this wonderful book about Florence, Italy. Ms. McCarthy really gives Florence its own personality and voice--a must read for any one who has been and is going back to that great city.
Some parts are interesting, but on the whole, it drags. I also think that because it is so dated, some parts do not ring true. Worth a quick read before a trip to Florence, if for nothing else, another reference for historical background.
If you haven't been to Florence, don't let Mary McCarthy's first chapter dissuade you. Once you're beyond it, McCarthy will give you a sound history lesson of the city and will prepare you for its wonders, the palaces, churches, gardens, the Arno, myths about Florence and more.
I liked learning stories surrounding the art and architecture of Florence with only minimal references to the politics and torture. Home to the Duomo. I must someday see the work of Brunelleschi, Giotto, Ghiberti, Uccello, etc.
"The eternal Florentine has no need to be sentimental about the past, which does not seem remote but as near and indifferently real as the clock on the tower Palazzo Vecchio to the housewife who pits her head out the window to time her spaghetti by it".
THE book to read when you're heading to Florence. It lightly treads on all history, culture, and even the fundamental meaning of being Florentine. A must read!
Older book from the 50s describing the architecture and art of Florence.
i miss florence. this is just a book about florence. sigh.
I finished it before I arrived and then reread it on my return flight to the United States.While McCarthy at times spoke above my head (I think she enjoyed a bit of pretension) she told the story of the city in a wonderful fashion mixing in history, geography, politics, religion and art.
I would have overlooked each of these and many others like them had I not read McCarthy.I had a brief time in Florence and have no way to judge if my feelings about the city are accurate but I will say that her presentation of Florentines as thrifty, orderly, independent and conversational all "seemed right".This is a very good read and happily recommended.
I like to read this kind of book when I travel: neither a guidebook nor a history but rather a reflection on one of the world’s great cities.
For example, McCarthy criticized the Mannerists, “who loved the two-tone effects now found chiefly in sleazy taffeta popular with home dressmakers for an ungainly girl’s first ‘formal.’” And I would have preferred less on art and more on history, but that’s simply a matter of personal taste.
Even there, though, McCarthy flies past Dante and Boccaccio, Machiavelli, the many Medicis, assuming that her readers don’t need additional context to understand her references.
Had the special luck of spending some months in Florence and this book captured many key features of the city that I had noticed but could not quite verbalize. A slightly odd book, consciously erudite and at times long-winded, but definitely worth reading for its numerous profound and fascinating insights.
