https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287426.Alexander_the_Great
This is a classic biography by the incredible Robin Lane Fox (I am trying to get through his latest Augustine now!) about Alexandre the Great.
The fruit of years of research, this book dives into mountains of archeological research to portray this young conqueror of the known world who died too young to see his empire survive even a single generation.
That being said, it was published back in 1975 and I ignore whether there are more recent biographies that reveal more details or missing information that has resulted from the last 40 years of archaeological research into Alexandre the Great.
One can only imagine what he might have achieved had he lived.This isn't the easiest book to read - it presumes a certain level of knowledge about the world of the Greek Mediterranean, and Lane Fox's sentences do have a tendency to run on, but for the most part he writes clearly and lucidly.
He really succeeds in bringing the world of Alexander to life, but he never veers off into imagination or speculation - he constantly reminds readers of how little there is left, how much is still unknown.
While it can sometimes be dry, the book as a whole is wonderful for students of history like myself.
This book is not for the casually interested however.
Alexander utilized the "hammer and anvil" strategy in most of his battles, with the phalanx acting as the anvil, holding the enemy in place, while the cavalry acted as the hammer, swinging around the flanks and smashing into the rear to break the enemy line.
Not a serious problem, as Fox is not a military historian, but cavalry has never been used to break unweakened infantry lines, it would be suicide.
I took this book not exactly having in mind to know about the great adventures of the Alexander the Great but to understand the way how people used to live and their cultures at such an ancient time and how they follow their King's order.
But I am glad that I chose to read a biography of Alexander, Alexander was a great leader, fearless, powerful, optimistic, respecting women and I also found him introvert at times and highly dedicated towards his work.
But I am happy to have read this book.
Throughout my years in the Middle East--Iran, Arabia, Algeria, and Greece (Near East) I had accumulated a train of experiences that held onto me like the tentacles of a gentle octopus, un-constraining, un-suffocating—just attached and always tugging me away from other horizons such as the Orient, India, South America, at least for living and working in those places.So, Robin Lane Fox's Alexander underpinned a lot of what I know and feel about the Middle East and Western Civilization.
Recensione per il blog Alessandro III di Macedonia su WordPressPer chi, come me, è interessato alla storia di Alessandro Magno, questo libro è un must. Il lavoro fatto da Fox è notevole e ripercorre tutta la vita di questa affascinante figura storica che non verrà mai dimenticata.
Robin Lane Fox's Alexander the Great has inspired me to compile my own suggested list of "Best History Books" because that is the best verdict I can give of this work.
Fox has constructed his life of Alexander from all the known sources, but questions each so thoroughly, asking whether it sounds reasonable or not, could there have been motivating factors that would have caused this interpretation of this event, and who was the author, and then (unlike many others), explaining his personal interpretation based on the context, historical facts, motivational factors, etc.
It's easy to get lost in the multitude of names, ancient places, and the digressions of the author.
The author largely sticks to what is known of Alexander, and when there are competing sources, gives a detailed analysis and conclusion of what the most likely outcome was.
Helpfully, the author details Alexander's fighting style, weapons, and army companies near the start.
I doubt there's a more detailed book on Alexander out there.
If you can keep the names and places straight, and not get lost in the digressions, this is the authoritative book on Alexander the Great.
DNF for now
In the case of the subject of this book, Alexander the Great happens to be his most studied and focused area.The descriptions of Alexander's early life, the political intrigues of the Macedonian court, his tutoring by Aristotle, and his fascination with Achilles and the stories of Homer all shine through.
When we get into the 'revenge' that Macedons and Greeks need to pay the Persians, the story is fast running and vivid.
Constantly the authors breath and depth of knowledge shines through and his strong intention to be impartial to the opposing sides bearing in mind only Greek derived sources exist.
Alexander is surely the only world-conquering hero who remains an attractive personality even under the close and fair minded scrutiny of a genius like Lane-Fox. The ruthlessness, the purges, murderous fits of drunken temper, the war crimes (by today's standards) - none are glossed over.
But the mesmeric power of his personality still exerts a fascination, even at this distance in time.
I found this a profoundly moving and fascinating book, but it is not the one to go to first.
Having attended a private Christian church school, people have had occasion to ask me whether I am a Christian or not.
One of the most interesting things I learned from the book was the age of many in his army by the end their incredible journey and giant adventure ..
many of the warriors were over 60-years old by then, having first been brought together by Alexander's father.
It wasn't about Alexander, but rather the incredible strength and endurance of the individuals making up that Only Once Ever army.
Early on in this EXCELLENT book, the author makes it clear that no contemporary accounts of Alexander's life exist. All that the historian can rely on is material written long after Alexander's death, and much of it biased. Despite this, Lane Fox does his best to try to separate the wheat from the chaff in order to produce a plausible biography of one of the world's military and political geniuses.This wonderfully written book traces Alexander's life from Macedonia to India and back to Babylon. It is highly readable, and a great achievement.Now, I shall tackle Napoleon Bonaparte's life!
Lane Fox è universalmente riconosciuto come il maggior esperto di Alessandro Magno vivente, la sua passione per questo personaggio e la sua preparazione storica sono evidenti in ogni singola pagina di questa biografia.Un saggio equilibrato e ben fondato, scritto in maniera vivace e accattivante. Consigliatissimo.
This is a strong biography, interesting in itself and also essential to understanding 4th century BC classical history. The Hellenistic Age makes little sense without knowledge of who Alexander was and what he did. Fox does a good job in aiding one's understanding.
The greatest conqueror of the Ancient World31 March 2012 My sister bought me this book for Christmas once since she discovered that I liked the Ancient Greek world, though I must admit that this period is a little later than what I generally am interested in. However my sister is an accountant so she is not to know detailed specifics of my interests in the Ancient Greek world and that my interest generally begins to wane after the death of Socrates. This is not an absolute truth though as during
The greatest conqueror of the Ancient World31 March 2012	My sister bought me this book for Christmas once since she discovered that I liked the Ancient Greek world, though I must admit that this period is a little later than what I generally am interested in.
In many ways it is a story outlining the conquests of Alexander and exploring many of the themes behind it and exploring the character of the conqueror.
What Alexander's conquests did was to spread the Greek culture across the Middle East, and this also opened up Europe to the exotic realms beyond the desert, such as India.
The best account of Alexander.
One soul in two bodies; he too is Alexander; that's exactly how it was, and no wonder the book says the hardest thing to imagine is what Alexander must have been like after Hephaistion's death.I admit I've not read any other biographies of Alexander, but if you don't know where to start or are only intending to read one, this is the one I would go with, because of its thoroughness and fairness.
The book Alexander the Great by Doug Wilhelm is a book about the uniting of the Greek Empire.
The author of this book, Doug Wilhelm, wrote this book in order to share the story of two characters who took part in the creation of the greek empire.
Throughout the book, the readers learn tons of information about the creation of the greek empire and its rulers king Philip II and Alexander, his son.
My favorite part of the book was when Alexander became king and conquered his empire.
fox is an admirer of alexander, but lays out his faults as well as his better features -- he doesn't get too close to his subject.the best book on alexander i've read.tidbits:* Foot Companions (sarissa troops) less important than alexander's cavalry.
fox puts zeus-ammon into a mediterranean and near eastern context, and attempts to get at the reasons for the trip and its importance in later years, both to alexander and to observers.* a nice segment on the Successors, hellenism and the impact of greek culture on the east after alexander's death.* only real gripe is his treatment of alexander's sexuality and relationship with men.
I wanted to like this book.
I wanted to read some awesome history.
I pushed myself through 285 pages of run-on sentences and jumps in logic.
I couldn't do it.
This book reads like a text book.
There's no narrative, no real attempt to draw the reader into a story.
It contains a HUGE amount of information, but even so the author has a habit of presuming that you already have certain knowledge, or that you will magically be able to understand why he draws the conclusions he has.
I don't recommend if you're simply looking for an interesting, educational read.
Such a bore I could not finish it. I thought I would let it rest for a while but after picking it up again I realized my time here is limited and I do not intend on wasting it in boredom. However it is very informative and thorough so if you are an historian or a fan of Alexander I guess this book may be of value to you.
a book written by a scholar for learned people who like thorough history - I liked it but it took me ages to read it
Excellent - lots of details of Alexander's battles and conquests but also painstaking analysis of what the stories might tell us about the man behind the myths.
In other words, he wanted to unite and rule the world, but his plans were stymied by an untimely death.Professor Fox brought to life the ancient history of Alexander's conquests.
Given that cavalry was a key component of Alexander's battle plans, this understanding equipped Professor Fox to better explain how the battles were fought.Alexander had been a man of great sexual passions, both heterosexual and homosexual, and had given thought to deifying his deceased best friend, who apparently had also been a male lover.
I took such a long time to finish this, but it is so worth it.
I already know some things about Alexander from the books I’ve read and documentaries I’ve watched, but Robin Lane Fox helped me increase my knowledge of my favorite historical figure.
I like how everything was carefully explained: from his childhood in Macedonia, to his relationship with his family, friends, and soldiers, and to the reason why he did the things he did.
This is a comprehensive read, and I believe that all those who are interested in Alexander or those who would want to know more about him would enjoy this book.
Una biografía extraordinaria para recorrer la vida de un personaje histórico extraordinario. La narración de Robin Lane Fox es siempre alegre, salpicada de anécdotas y comentarios que complementan el recorrido principal. Si bien aquí no alcanza el nivel literario de sus extraordinarios El Mundo Clásico o Héroes Viajeros, el mérito de hilar una biografía tan pormenorizada se mantiene intacto.
Authoritative, no doubt as it's possibly the best researched ever book on the subject. But very boring in parts. These parts read like a doctoral dissertation on the pros and cons of various possibilities e.g. Who murdered Alexander's mother ? How did Alexander die ? Then also there are very many names and characters of no consequence.
Brilliant book, i finished it about two weeks ago and its still bubbling away in my head, it was written in the ealy 1970's but its likely still the best book on him, i certainly won't be reading further on Alexander because i felt nothing more needs to be said. Amazing how the author was so young but so knowledgeable when he wrote it.
That's what you need for Alexander, unbiased and realistic. The only problem is that the author tells you about everything Alexander experienced, you can aboid thpse complex war scenes or maneuvers described in detail if you wish so.
