https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/543418.The_Best_Loved_Poems_of_the_American_People
I'm not positive this is the exact one, my cover looks different, but this is the best poetry book I've ever owned. It has Browning, Poe, Wheelcox, EVERYONE! Great read. This inspired me to publish my second book and write more poetry.
I purchased this book for more nostalgia value then anything else. My mother read from this book every Christmas Eve as we sat around the fireplace. I imagine the fact that she had to find poems that would appeal to my dad, my brother and I is the reason why I now associate The Charge of the Light Brigade and Casey at the Bat with Christmas.And though I am aware of its maudlin qualities, I think Annie and Willie's Prayer will remain a Christmas staple for me.
Oh how I adore this book! I have had this lovely and very old book of poems for a long, long time and not a day goes by without me dipping in and pulling out a treasure to read and reread and savor. Poems can be like gentle rain or a mysterious fog swirling about us. There is magic to poetry and this book is a wonderful balm. If you find a copy, do grab hold of it. This is not something you will read once then put away to get dusty.
My mother in 1964 gave this book to my grandfather. When he died my aunt somehow got it, she recently returned it to my mother. I immediately procured it for my collection. Its spine is broken from ware, I can tell my grandfather loved it. I do too, it is wonderful collection of poetry, It has some of my favorite poems and some new ones. 'Strictly Germ-Proof' is a wonderful humorous that my mother and aunt read when they were young and is now a favorite of mine.
I revere this book.
My grandfather had the original 1936 publication, and this was one of my bedtime storybooks from the age of 4 and up.
My grandfather heavily discouraged the reading of "baby books" (his term, not mine) like "Three Little Pigs", "Goldilocks", etc.
So, part of the nightly ritual was to read a few poems or something from the classic genre.
I grew up loving this book in particular.
Poems that still stick with me are "Grandfather's Clock", "Casey at the Bat", "The Raven", "Paul Revere's Ride", "Grandmother's Old Armchair" and "Casabianca".

I remember learning to read from this book. One line still sticks in my mind "...boots, slog, slogging over Africa..." Not the best poem, but one a six-year-old could read.My dad had this book and read from it all the time. Christmas just wouldn't have been the same without hearing "Annie & Willie's Prayer." When the spine broke and the book fell apart, I bought my own copy. Now it is also broken and falling apart. This is a wonderful collection.
I am 15 years old and found this poetry book at a used book store for a dollar, and decided to buy it since I loved reading and wanted to make myself more 'rounded', though I did not expect to enjoy it. Now if you find my copy you see sticky notes and books marks marking all my favorites. I read this often when I can't sleep despite the fact that is has an old cigar smell, and dog eared pages, courtesy of its previous owner. Wonderful collection!
My Mother read to me from this book when I was a young girl. She read poems that tell a story, and short inspirational poems. I carry many of these thoughts and words with me and they are a source of joy and peace. I would recommend that all children be feed a healthy dose of this book to nourish their minds and hearts.
I first discovered this gem on my mother's book case when I was in junior high. I opened it to find her maiden name written on the inside cover. I underlined so much and dog-egged it so much throughout the years that it has become my own. I took it to college with me, and when I graduated I read from it that morning to collect my thoughts. Needless to say, I love this book
Chock-full-o-classics. Originally I bought this book to hunt down a reading for a wedding, but it's very soothing and/or nostalgic to browse. Children especially love the poems that tell a story. They are arranged by helpful themes: love and friendship, inspirational, home and mother, humor, etc.
This book will forever hold great childhood memories for me, mostly of time well spent with my Dad. I can still read the poems over and over. I love the classics, the humorous, the poems that tell a story...all of them! The pages are literally falling out of my copy!
Received this book for a wedding gift.Includes poems that I have read again and again. The poems cover all aspects of life. A couple of the poems has given me pause.I did not think much of the gift on our wedding day but after over 30 years of marriage, I highly value this book of poems.
Includes "My Christmas Train" by Ethel Ceclia Eccles
Love this book! I never tire of reading and re-reading this collection.
Received this book for my graduation from high school 50 in 1968. It has many poems that are often quoted. Just a good book for anyone's shelf.
a poem a day! love it. LOVE the country cover.
A great collection of poems from many different poets.
Great collection - many of the most-quoted poems; things you've heard without realizing they are from a poem.
This is how I first learned to read. My dad and I would sit and read random poems from the old copy he had from his childhood. It's a great collection of classic poetry.
This book is so wonderful!
I grew up with my father reading me poems out of this book, and I was thrilled to find my own edition so I can re-read the best loved poems of my American childhood.
Gift from Alma to Dad, Christmas 1968.
Poems to lift the spirit and inspire the mind. Very nice collection of almost exclusively American poems that I purchased in October of 2001 after finding a need to add more poetry to my life.
A treasure trove of various poetry. I've had my book since the 70s and still return to find a golden gem when needed.
A great selection of the best poetry ever written. I have found some of my favorite poets through reading this compilation.
One of my all-time favorite books ever!
My Mother read to my brother and I from this book probably the late 1950's to early 60's. The best loved poems of the American people has changed since I would guess.
Here's one:HOLD FAST YOUR DREAMSHold fast your dreams!Within your heartKeep on still, secret spotWhere dreams may go,And, sheltered so,May thrive and growWhere doubt and fear are not.O keep a place apart,Within your hear,For little dreams to go!Think still of lovely things that are not true.Let wish and magic work at will in you.Be sometimes blind to sorrow.
we knowHow quickly fadeThe color in the west,The bloom upon the flower,The bloom upon the breastAnd youth's blind hour.Yet keep within your heartA place apartWhere little dreams may go,May thrive and grow.Hold fast -- hold fast your dreams!---Louise Driscoll
I got this book from my parents.
It has been my words of joy in times of happiness, my solace in times of loss, my friend when I was lonely, & it restored my sence of humor when I am stressed.
If there was a radio station that had readings from it, it would be sheer joy.
Reiterated parroting of people that will only find the lowest humor possible & drag it out, to be paraded.
Please - if you are a parent, get this book & spend even 15 minutes at the end of the day reading to your children, or them reading it on their own.
