https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1327528.Castile_for_Isabella
After having read Weir's stunning fictionalization of Katherine of Aragon, I thought I'd step farther back in time and read about her mother, Isabella of Castile.
This first book begins when she is four years old and her father, King John, dies, leaving her and her brother, Alphonso, to be brought up isolated with their mother, the mad Queen Isabella.
Reading this account, although fictional, of her youth, it's easy to see how she became the religious zealot who refused the divorce from Henry VIII and kept the title of queen until she died.
Plaidy did an excellent job of introducing Isabella to readers.
First part of a set of biographical novels about Isabella of Castile who funded Columbus and oversaw the creation of the Inquisition. The usual, fairly historically sound (not entirely) product of the busy pen of Jean Plaidy.
Samozrejme, že po návšteve Andalúzie som (viac-menej) okamžite siahla po knižke o Isabel. A myslím, že som urobila dobre, že som si vybrala práve knihu od Jean Plaidy. Počula som už o nej ako o kráľovnej historických románov a veru niet sa čomu čudovať. Napriek tomu, že toto je len akýsi úvod a prevažná časť knihy sa venuje skôr detstvu Isabel, je to neodškriepiteľne pútavé čítanie (vidieť, čím si musela prejsť, ako u nej zavládla výchova a celkovo prostredie, v ktorom žila, bola proste paráda). Rozhodne si plánujem zaobstarať aj zvyšok série.
The novel revolves around Isabella and her mother who is mentally unstable; and the court of Henry, with the drama resulting in certain factions and their choice as the proper heir of Castile.
She has an unstable mother, a younger brother who is docile and loving, and an older brother who is King of Castile but who is pretty much useless in all ways.Plaidy stays the course in this novel and is not as gripping as some of her other novels, yet Isabella as a young girl is not all that extraordinary, yet rather pious (her nickname is Isabella the Catholic).
The only thing i disagree, on this reading is about Henry IV of Castile.
Of course, we'll never know the real truth, but a man that was married twice, only had a daughter, which the paternity was questioned and lived in a frivolous court and was a weak ruler, is suspicious.
Besides this, Isabella knew that her brother Alfonso and herself would live under threats.
But even years later, becoming the Queen of Castile, Isabella will have to learn to persuade Ferdinand in accept his role as Queen's Consort.
Castile for Isabella, is a very interesting reading.
As the title suggests, this historical fiction novel is based on the real life of one of – if not *the* – most famous Spanish queens.
Set in the mid-1400s, “Castile for Isabella” follows Isabella from the age of four up until her late teens, when she becomes Queen.
He also doesn’t feature in the book until near the end of the story.This is the first book I’ve read by Jean Plaidy and I am very impressed with her writing style and ability to present a work of fiction based on fact.
The characters are believable, the plot easy to follow.A very good read.
I enjoyed it, but if any of it was based on actual fact, I'm glad I wasn't in line for the throne in those days. Too many people wanting power & doing anything to get it.
I first read this book as a teenager and loved it at the time. Back then I was just discovering historical fiction and was devouring Jean Plaidy's work along with many others. I found it again on my bookshelf and decided to give it another go.I still like it, though I now have a much wider reading background to support my thoughts about it. It's a readable book, though more like a history book than a novel. It's well-researched and has great historical detail.
Historical fiction at its bestit's a few years since I last read 'Castile for Isabella' and the years have not reduced the enjoyment of this wonderful story - spies, murder, deceit, wars and romance come together to ensure the story of the young Isabella will continue to enthrall book and history lovers alike.
Thoroughly readable and enjoyable. I had planned to move on to another book but have since downloaded the next two. It's historical fiction in terms of following grand events without the nitty gritty of day to day life at the time. I feel it's similar to watching a period drama. Lots of pyjama reading coming up.
One of Plaidy's earlier historical series, this is a tightly written tale of the childhood of Isabella of Castille. Trapped between her mentally unstable mother and dissolute half-brother, Isabella nevertheless manages to grow into a serious and dedicated princess of Castille, ready to become queen when the time comes.
I was so looking forward to this book as we recently visited this area of Spain and I thought I should know more about its history. The novel did not disappoint in this respect but I always see a novel as a film in my mind and the dialogue seemed stilted and unreal. The pace and story telling however is as excellent as ever and I really enjoyed the reading experience.
Excelente. Fue mí primera saga de esta autora. Me enamoró.
Put it down a third the way through and never bothered picking it up again. I think it's of its time. Modern historicals are more gripping.
Pero Plaidy apenas la dibuja, sin aprovechar esas características tan ricas que luego explicarían su obsesión enfermiza por un prometido al que no conoce, su fanatismo religioso y las consecuencias culturales que eso tuvo para España y, en último término, para buena parte de Europa y América.
Ante la incapacidad (o poco deseo) de construir los personajes, Plaidy se limita a repetir hasta el cansancio frases que indicarían la locura de Isabel de Portugal, la represión de Isabel de Castilla, la desidia de Enrique IV de Castilla, o la ambición y arrogancia de Fernando de Aragón.La novela se lee rápido, un par de días, y como historia es interesante, aunque está muy mal contada, incluso a nivel sintaxis.
It took me a bit of time to read as I found myself not engrossed at all with the story at some points.
The book as some here had previously pointed out reads like a documentary.
All in all, halfway through the book it got more interesting, however, like I said before, it took some time.
Reading the reviews here however, I noticed that 'Isabella for Castile' is not hailed as Plaidy's favourite book.I would like to get my hands on another Plaidy's novel however, despite this review, such as the Medici family.
Este primer tomo de Los Reyes Católicos, se basa en la vida de Isabel desde pequeña, huérfana de padre y bajo el cuidado de una madre desequilibrada, se refugia en el amor de su hermano menor, Alfonso.
Ella sabía que a la muerte de su medio hermano Enrique y en caso de faltar Alfonso, ella sería la Reina de Castilla y fue educada con tal propósito.
Una joven con un temple admirable y valiente.
La autora escribió más de 200 novelas de género histórico, utiliza una prosa bella y sencilla que puede atrapar fácilmente al lector.
Its an ok read.
It took me a bit of time to read as I found myself not engrossed at all with the story at some points.
Additionally, I didn't really like the characters, they are superficially described and it doesnt go in dept.
Isabel is described as obsessed, first with her mother's attacks and then with Fernando and being married to him.
Seems like a pity since there are so many things about Isabel to talk about (i.e. religion, strategy, politics, friends, enemies...) I didnt like Fernando's characterisation either.
The author continuously repeats things along the story.
Muy buen inicio para esta trilogía de Los reyes católicos.
Considero que fue una buena decisión el dividir la vida de Isabel en tres etapas importantes (niñez/adolescencia, Reina, su legado).
Este primer libro es muy ameno, con prosa ligera y distinta de lo que se esperaría de una novela histórica.
Es impresionante el cómo las mujeres son utilizadas más que nada como moneda de cambio para alianzas entre los países y que Isabel se opuso totalmente a otro matrimonio que no fuera con Fernando de Aragón, trayéndole bastantes problemas.Deja un buen sabor y con ganas de leer el siguiente.
Una fantástica historia centrada en los primeros años de Isabel la Católica, la más extraordinaria reina de España. Su infancia y adolescencia, bajo los cuidados de una madre ambiciosa y desequilibrada, su vida en la corte de su hermano Enrique IV y, finalmente, su ascensión al trono del brazo de Fernando de Aragón. Intriga s, amores clandestinos y escándalos palaciegos se suceden en una inolvidable novela donde la realidad histórica aparece magníficamente plasmada. A esta primera entrega de la trilogía, seguirán: España para sus soberanos y Las hijas de España.
Smart, nicely written and well-done history of Isabella. The novel begins with a very young Isabella right after her father's death. The telling of her mother's impending madness was spot on. We follow Isabella's history to the beginning of her marriage with Ferdinand and the birth of their first child. Very reminiscent of the struggles of Queen Victoria as a child - plotting and backstabbing all around. It is amazing that these women survive childhood to become rulers of their prospective countries. Will be reading the next two follow up volumes in short order.
I've read quite a bit on the british kings and queens - and so many of those stories include a reference to this powerful woman.
it was wonderful to read a story of her life and the time she grew up in.
it worried me a little as the story progressed, and many of the characters in the book began to die off - but i guess that's just how it went.
if you enjoy historical fiction like phillppa gregory's works, or g.
meyer, then you will enjoy this.
best of luck finding the 2nd and 3rd parts of this trilogy, though...the books are out of print.
I read this in a fairly quick fashion but I wasn't thrilled with the storytelling. Historically speaking, the book moves through in an accurate manner but the writer seems to lack any finesse in filling in the details that make me love historical fiction. I know almost nothing other than the facts, was it cold out? Warm? Were the grounds richly landscaped? Not that all these details are a requirement for a great story, I kind of felt like I was reading a text book that had some liberties with the basic story.
I didn't realize when I bought this book it was written so long ago. I love to read regency historical fiction books where you follow a character in the first person. This book annoyed me because it was written sometimes in the first person and sometimes as a third person with historical knowledge of events. I am debating whether or not to purchase the next two books of this series, only because Im interested in the history.
This was a bit like watching a docudrama. It's interesting because you know it's historically accurate and it's bit more entertaining than a straight forward documentary because it's dramatized. But it doesn't really pull you in emotionally like a movie would. It would be a great option for people who find biographies and non-fiction too dry and dull and wish to learn accurate history in novel format.
Mediocre. Basically a re-write of Lawrence Schoonover's far superior (though not perfect itself) The Queen's Cross. Very slow and virtually nothing happens until she marries Ferdinand 90% of the way through. Then, again almost nothing happens - the only drama being his drama queen dislike for the insufficiently awed Archbishop and the birth of their (historically unimportant) first daughter.
Plaidy's books are always helpful for someone like me, who never studied history at school, and somehow feels the need to "catch up". They are well researched, relaxing novels, although it would be nice to skip most of the cheesy parts!
Castilla para IsabelInteresante. Le falta desarrollo a los personajes. Hubiera sido interesante saber más de Carlos de Viana y de Enrique IV. El personaje de Beatriz Bobadilla es fascinante y requería más espacio.
Not her greatest, but I liked it better than I did Pleasures of Love, so that's something...
Es una novela histórica sobre la vida de Isabel de Castillo. Me gustó la redacción, salvo por la pronunciacion de los nombres y lugares.
