https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10885.The_Wise_Men
There is an inscription on the front flyleaf of my copy that reads, "To George & Julie Merry Xmas 1986 Hope this brings knowledge to your whole family Love Francie".
The book had all the appearance of never having been read, so I suspect George, Julie, and their family were never enlightened as Francie hoped.
I do remember Eisenhower being elected in 1952 and I've been interested in our country's government ever since.
Walter Isaacson and his co-author, Evan Thomas, did an excellent job of portraying these events in an interesting and readable manner.
The establishment is profiled through the careers of Robert Lovett, John McCloy, Averell Harriman, Charles Bohlen, George Kennan, and Dean Acheson.
Unfortunately, their sensible world view was translated by more simplistic minds in the fifties into being "soft on communism." They were not highly visible to the public (except when McCarthy made them targets), but preferred to persuade leaders privately and intellectually.
For example, Dean Acheson resigned as Under Secretary of the Treasury under FDR in a dispute over whether the United States could legally buy gold at a price higher than that set by Congress.
This book focuses on the Wise men in Truman Administration who were architects of US policy for the cold war.
These men in addition pretty much molded cold war institutions and are the quintessential figures of the foreign policy establishment.
In the early phases, all eyes were on Europe and the wise men were caught off guard by the events in Korea and probably didn't foresee that much of the cold war would be fought in dirty little proxy wars in what would be termed the third world.
This book does a good job of describing these men and their background and times which they lived and shaped.
The six patricians look on as protestors and presidents they can’t abide change their world.Greece: Athens and Sparta unite to defeat the Persians, then negotiate a peace treaty betwen themselves that lasts a few decades.
Most served the State Department in some capacity there before World War II.
Harriman is portrayed as the little boy with his hand in the air all the time eager to be called on to answer the question, serve as ambassador, negotiate with the Russians, be Secretary of State.
Part American WWII history, part Cold War history, part biography, part discussion of the "Establishment" in mid 20th century America combine to form a well-written account of several key players in U.S. foreign policy from the 1930s-70s.
Isaacson and Thomas decide to focus on six men who they believe embody the views and actions of foreign affairs during and after WWII, and on into the Vietnam War era.
He never achieved the one position that he really wanted (Secretary of State) but he managed to have a lasting impact on American foreign policy.John McCloy Like Harriman, McCloy had conflicts of interest as well but he much less disposed to seek out government positions.
On one, it is an excellent biography of six men dedicated to public service who were involved in American diplomacy during a critical time in the nation's history (WWII & the early Cold War).
On another it explains how the powerful ideas (containment, anti-communism) guiding American foreign policy during the Cold War were formed and the force that these ideas took on beyond the control of their creators.
True statesmen who served in both Democratic and Republican administrations. We need people like this in government today.
But Halberstam's use of that term was ironic; here, the authors are not speaking ironically when they refer to the six as "the original brightest and best" (Page 19).
They were surely players, but to say that they were the architects of the American century (the title of the chapter in which these quotations are embedded) is too strong a statement.
The book chronicles their achievements (and some failures) in considerable detail from FDR's term on.
Given Halberstam's discussion of the "best and brightest" who got the country into Vietnam and couldn't figure out how to succeed there, the "wise men" were opposed and raised their questions with Johnson.
These men (in no special order) were: William Averell Harriman, who started as Roosevelt’s special envoy to Churchill and Stalin, Robert Abercrombe Lovett, Roosevelt’s Under Secretary of State, Dean Gooderham Acheson, Truman’s Secretary of State, John Jay McCloy, Jr., the President of the World Bank and the High Commissioner for Germany, George Frost Kennan, who had a stellar career in the Foreign Service, and Charles Eustis Bohlen, one of the nation’s foremost experts on Russia at the start of the Cold War. Together, these six men were largely responsible for America’s stance towards Russia during the Cold War, and shaped the policies that remain in place up to today.
In all this is a ‘must-read’ history of America’s politics during a critical period of world activity and of the men who were mostly responsible for guiding us through the mazes.
The subject matter raises some interesting questions: was it wise to have at the center of American foreign policy so many men whose backgrounds were so similar to each other?
Was the country better served by these very well educated and very affluent men than the people we get today in the upper echelons of power, whose motivations are often self-serving and political?
The bottom line is that, for these men, their particular political party affiliation and that of whoever was President at the time did not matter as much as serving their country.
I feel like I've been reading this book my whole life.
LONG.
And I like long books!
While interesting and thorough, I felt like I couldn't see the forest because there were just too many flippin' trees.
This is the second Walter Isaacson book I've read, and his writing philosophy seems to be, "If a point is worth making, it's worth belaboring." Not only was the mind-numbingly comprehensive recitation of detail tedious, it was exacerbated by a lack of overarching analysis and connective tissue.
I really enjoyed the early parts of the book that focused on their roles in WWII and the immediate post war period.

Even the American public, despite deep currents of anti-Communist sentiment, was fascinated by press accounts portraying Russia as a potential trading partner and ally.- “Such was the cast of the military mind that the full potential of air power as an independent, offensive weapon had not penetrated the domain of artillery and battleships,”- “At irregular intervals in history,” Lovett told the old artillery colonel, “some new development has altered the art of war and changed the fate of peoples and the world.”THE RUSSIANS- “The Russian mind, as Dostoyevski has shown, knows no moderation; and it sometimes carries both truth and falsehood to such infinite extremes that they eventually meet in space, like parallel lines, and it is no longer possible to distinguish between them.”- What Bohlen concluded from his analysis was that it was foolish to base a policy toward the Soviets on anything other than an appeal to their self-interest.
This is, without a doubt, one of the best, easiest to read yet incredibly deep and detailed, history books I've ever read.
The book undoubtedly admirers the six men involved, Dean Acheson, Charles E.
But by that time, their place in history as great men was already well earned.
Yet they managed to balance each other out, even serving in different ways in different places and times.
Anyhow, I doubt I can really say much about this book that hasn't already been said.
Treating it as a series of interwoven biographies was an effective approach to the subject and to the men themselves.
These are men whose names I recall hearing for many, many years (I'm 68 years old now) and it was good to have their contributions to our country delineated in such a readable and understandable fashion.
(In fact, Dean Acheson was the keynote speaker at my college graduation and it is only now that I fully appreciate what a significant historical figure he was, a mere 45 years after the event!) Overall, I'm glad I read the book and I'd recommend it for anyone interested in U.S. Foreign Policy from WWII through the Cold War and the Viet Nam era.
A portrait of The Establishment: the men--estrogen levels all but undetectable in this circle--responsible for defining the international role America was to play following the second world war.
At first, I was a bit dismayed that there was so little reference to the domestic situation of the times until I realized to what extent US foreign policy makers of the post-war era were impervious to local politics.
They do a fine job of examining the evolution of America's cold war foreign policy and vividly depict how the Establishment sowed the seeds of its own destruction.
I read this book a long time ago, and it was interesting to see how my perspective on these men and their effect on foreign policy in particular has changed.
This is still, in my opinion, a well researched and well written book, and while not perfectly balanced, Isaacson presents fairly balanced very of men who he clearly admired greatly.
This remains a great book for anyone interested in pre-and post WWII foreign policy development in the US.
Court History that shows that even at the height of democratic success in America (contrary to popular perception) relatively few individuals actually ruled the State in ways largely unbeknownst to the general public (who were mostly content not knowing having “authorized” those in office via elections).Fast read despite the length.
The first chapters, in particular, are of interest in explaining the rise to power of the six men discussed, especially McCloy.
Elihu Root and Henry Stimson were the de facto "godfathers" of Harriman & company, who then went on to rule the post-war or cold war world.Written for those who predominantly want to admire the characters involved, with only rare criticism or editorializing.


I bought this because it is co-written by Walter Isaacson, who wrote the Jobs biography, and a wonderful book on Kissinger.I got about half way through.
It is the six biographies of men I vaguely remember as being aging luminaries when I was a child.
Unfortunately the idea of a 6 person biography (instead of a diplomatic history of the period) doesn't work.
None of them was important or interesting enough for me to want to read about their formative years (but I did).
About half way through the book, I admitted defeat.
I picked up 6 Characters in Search of an Author instead.
Truly, a remarkable tour de force by Isaacson and Thomas about the six men that shaped the post-World War II world and the Pax Americana.
If one wants to find out how the world got to where it was during the Cold War, read this book.
For a Cold War enthusiast like myself and someone who wrote their master's thesis on NATO, this book really allowed me to see deeper into how these six men pushed America to become the indispensable nation that it is today.
There are great thinkers in foreign policy now, but none that rival the likes of Acheson, McCloy, Bohlen, Harriman, Kennan, and Lovett anymore.
DAVID GERGEN: Let me ask you this in terms of thinking back over then of that period of American foreign policy in the last forty or fifty years, one of the ironies here is that in an age of information you suggest we have too little wisdom.
GEORGE KENNAN: Yes, I do, and one of the things that bothers me about the computer culture of the present age is that one of the things of which it seems to me we have the least need is further information.
What we really need is intelligent guidance in what to do with the information we've got.
An exceptionally good book about a group of men in positions of power and influence from the close of WWII up until the Nixon years. It mostly revolves around Dean Achenson, George Kennan, John McCloy, Averell Harriman and Charles Bolhlen. All were instrumental in reshaping both U.S. policy and the future of Europe after the war. They remained over sized figures through both the Korean and Vietnam wars. The authors did a great job covering a lot of ground.
A study of the men who advised Harry Truman about how to rebuild Europe and contain communism in the years after World War II.“Washington was filled with excitement that sunny Monday: Dwight Eisenhower, the returning hero, was greeted by the largest crowds in the city’s history as he paraded down Pennsylvania Avenue. Wedged into Truman’s afternoon schedule — between lunches and dinners and other ceremonies honoring Eisenhower — was the meeting on Japanese strategy.”
1/17/09: I haven't finished anything to justify starting another (huge!) book, but I'm reading this in celebration of smart people being involved in government again (and for that matter, as a reminder that smart, well-meaning people in government can't always guarantee the outcome you'd like to see).
Fantastic, gripping portrayal of the key post Cold War foreign policy establishment. Love how Isaacson and Thomas weave friendship and policy together. Always nice to read a bio where Roosevelt, Truman, and Eisenhower play secondary roles to underbelly of US foreign policy during those turbulent times.
I am fascinated by Isaacson's in-depth details of pre- and post- WWII government in the U.S. He takes six men who were highly instrumental in rebuilding post-war Europe and gives really good details of both their successes and failures as well as their personal background. You also get a glimpse into Turman's courage in some of his decisions.
An insight-filled look at the rise and beginning wane of "The American Century." The role these six men played in forming the world we occupy today is impressive and a bit unnerving at the same time.
This fascinating collective biography of such establishment figures as Dean Achison and George Kennan teaches a LOT of history, from WW I through the early 1980s. I listened to this book, despite the rather annoying narrator.
