https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216398.The_Divine_Invasion
The Divine Invasion is a sci-fi alternate reality version of the second coming of Christ, told as only Philip K.
Dick could.
More serious than VALIS and one his more serious works overall, PKD demonstrates his deep erudition of the Bible.
Fundamentalists may be put off, and the reader looking for pure science fiction may be overwhelmed with his frequent references and quotes from the Bible, but this is an important work and one that must be read by a true student of PKD.
It was alternately illuminating, entertaining, humorous, disturbing and terrifying.
It has a brain damaged kid that holds the universe in his mind, Elijah traveling through time as the spirit of the Holy Ghost (who was once Mozart), and Herb Asher, the god-smuggler, the lover of music, the *mostly* dead and frozen Job of the novel, constantly being pulled between good and evil.
Even the dead cat from VALIS has is place as a dead dog in Divine Invasion, on this time it isn't just an angry man talking to a mad one, but two Gods making a point with each other.
:) Ohhh, Bowie...I used to rank this lower in my mind with Valis, but in fact I think it belongs on an equal footing, now.
You need to keep track not only of where you are in space, but in time.
Now resident in an alien hill and renamed Yah, (so much classier than Yo!) the big guy is looking to stage a comeback.
All sorts of religious musing hijinks ensue, wonderings on the nature of consciousness, the Talmud, time and space and whether reality is external to the mind or a manifestation of it.
I most enjoyed a conversation between Yah and a feminine counterpart that reminded me of the devil tempting Jesus in the desert.
However, after PDK’s death in 1982, The Transmigration of Timothy Archer was substituted for the unfinished The Owl in Daylight and grouped together as the VALIS TRILOGY.The Divine Invasion is dense religious allegory that begins with some of the familiar SF elements frequently in PDK’s earlier novels but quickly delves into his ideas about gnosis (finding knowledge, enlightenment or salvation by recognizing a higher spiritual realm separate from the material world), anamnesis (the process of “losing forgetfulness” or regaining knowledge), and the dualistic nature of the divine Godhead, which was separated in the Fall into a superior supreme being and a lesser creator god (a “demiurge”) who shaped the material world that humans live in.The plot is very complex, but here goes.
Dick, The Divine InvasionBook 2 of Philip K Dick's VALIS Trilogy (Gnostic Trilogy [God Trilogy]), 'The Divine Invasion' is a funky PKDesque exploration of good and evil, God and Belial, gnostic truth, etc.
She is accompanied by Herb Asher, a DJ protagonist of sorts (Jesus as a DJ's son) who marries Rybys (read Mary) to assist getting her and her unborn God-baby smuggled safely to Earth, and Elias (Elijah) the one who prepares the way.
Well, maybe genius after a psychic break, and way too much religious exploration and hit after hit after hit of LSD.
DAMN Philip K. Dick you have got some PROBLEMS, a great many of them with women. And you're so fucking brilliant and so messed up and weird. Did you realize there is ZERO feminist criticism of you? That's about to change, my new dead crazy fucked-up friend.
I liked it, although I was confused a good part of the time and a stronger background in religious matters would have helped. But still, great classic PKD scenes and dialogue. I'm enjoying the audio of the PKD novels I've listened to so far, and Dick Hill did a great job with this one.
Like VALIS it addresses religion and philosophy, but it’s not as tightly structured or plotted as the first book.
In fact, some parts of The Divine Invasion feel like they belong to a completely different story.
Where else but in a PKD story can you discover that the name of Earth’s vast Artificial Intelligence System is “Big Noodle”?Also funny, in a slightly uncomfortable way, is Dick’s inclusion and depiction of a character based on his unrequited object of obsession at the time, the singer Linda Ronstadt.
I enjoyed The Divine Invasion more than VALIS, despite VALIS being the tighter written and better structured book.
Ca de obicei, nimic nu se desfășoară cum ar trebui, Pământul este controlat de Belial (Diavolul) prin intermediul unei inteligențe artificiale și, în urma unui accident, Manny (Emmanuel, Yah, Dumnezeu) își pierde memoria.
"Ce tărâm tragic mai este şi acesta, reflectă.
Cei de aici, de jos, sunt prizonieri, şi tragedia esenţială e că ei nici măcar nu ştiu asta; ei cred că sunt liberi pentru că niciodată nu au fost liberi şi nu înţeleg ce înseamnă asta.
Aceasta este o închisoare şi puţini oameni au ghicit lucrul acesta.
Dar eu ştiu, pentru că de asta mă aflu aici.

the internal battle for reality, the good vs. the evil, the light vs. the dark, children vs. goats -its a throwdown for all of humanity. its intergalactic and its terrifying, its your soul and its winner take all. Sunday, sunday, sunday - BE THERE!!!
In some ways it's more fun like that.Mostly my pity for him has come reading VALIS and now The Divine Invasion.
I pity him because he was very disturbed in his later years and his entire foundations about reality and existence had been completely shaken by a strange divine experience he had.
Here, Dick seems to be entertaining the idea that the experience definitely happened and through protagonist Herb Asher, a strange paranoid fantasy comes through.
The Divine Invasion is much more controlled in its writing than the series' first, but the outrageousness of the story suggests Dick was completely on his own in discovering the secrets of the universe.
Dick experienced (suffered?) a psychic event on 2/3/74 that completely changed his thinking and his approach to life.
Although he still wrote in the science fiction genre, his books become more and more about religion and his characters more and more like cardboard cutouts for religious figures.
In this book, we learn that Yaweh is coming back to Earth to battle Belial.
To facilitate matters, a neighbor of hers on the colony, Herb Asher, pretends to be her husband so that they can get through inspection at immigration.
The forces that be on Earth catch wind of her arrival and do everything in their power to keep the foetus from being born.
God finds that he needs to be smuggled back to earth, in the womb of a virgin woman, Rybys.
However, Earth is ruled by tyrannical religious leaders who try their best to destroy the immigration space craft, and when that fails, to have God aborted at customs, and later again at the hospital.
God is brought up by a woman named Zina; it is apparent that Zina has some supernatural characteristics, although it does not become clear who she is exactly, until the end of the story.If this plot sounds a bit confusing--well, it is.
Dick books.
It explores the theme of parallel universes that sneaks into most of his work, and gives a nail-biting account of Yahweh's, and creation at large's, struggle to survive in a world with harmful religious leaders and stifling bureaucracy.
You don't have to be religious to like this book, you just have to have a soul.
A potent and heady stew of Judaism, Kabalah, Zoroastrianism, and Christianity...all cooked-up from Phil's bizarre 1974 religious experience.
Of the thirteen PKD novels I've read to date, THE DIVINE INVASION was the most difficult and least humorous.
It is the second book in the Valis trilogy.
Heavy on theologic and apostolic ruminations, it's an alternate reality version of Jesus Christ's return to Earth.
Book reviews of VALIS (book #1) and THE TRANSMIGRATION OF TIMOTHY ARCHER (book #3) indicate they also contain similar ramblings; therefore, I doubt I'll complete the trilogy.
This one is more for hard-core PKD fans.
While Valis was an incredible novel that fully explored Dick's enlightenment/mental collapse via a lifelong addiction to uppers and his views of the divine, electronic music and pink lasers, this book seems to be more os a scifi thriller that really fails to go anywhere, despite the fact that it's set on both intergalactic exploration outposts, as well as parts of NY and LA.
The climax was weak, the whole concept of the divine as an illegal "alien" being aided by the physical embodiment of pagan gods in a fight against a demonic baby goat that somehow ties into the legacy as a sequel to a book as chilling as Valis...
As with the previous book in the Valis trilogy, I give this one five stars with a big ol' asterisk next to it.
There are people who are going to hate this book and throw it across the room, and I totally get it.
If you know and care who Philip K.
Also, as with the first volume, DO NOT start with the Valis trilogy as your introduction to the works of PKD.
But, when you are ready, the mad prophet of the satellite god will be here waiting to explode your brain with 99% "nonsense" and 1% "everything you need to know about life"
Meh. Not bad, but definitely not as good as VALIS. In that book, PKD seemed to care about the narrative just as much as he cared about pouring the kooky ideas out of his head. Not the case with this second book, unfortunately.
E per non rendere le cose più facili, questa volta il figlio in questione è privo di memoria.La storia è così sdoppiata in due filoni: da un lato il tentativo del piccolo Emmanuel di ritrovare la memoria perduta, dall'altro il racconto (tra passato e presente e pure tra realtà alternative) della coppia umana cui era stata affidata la seconda venuta di Dio. La prima parte del romanzo sembra un'ottima sintesi delle diverse esperienze letterarie di Dick: l'omaggio (parodistico?) alla sua fantascienza giovanile, il conflitto sonno/veglia e vita/morte ripreso direttamente da Ubik, la cospirazione mondiale (questa volta religiosa).
The Divine Invasion is probably the most coherent of the "VALIS series".
One part study in comparative mythology, one part fable, and one part science fiction, this book makes the VALIS experience both more personal and grander in scope than it has ever been.
I found the character of Emmanuel (who is the deity Yah in the body of a ten-year-old boy) absolutely spellbinding.
Dick excels at writing characters torn between two versions of reality, and Emmanuel is possibly his finest realization of this.
Their normality is terrifying because they're faced with a conflict far beyond their scope of comprehension.This book is an absolute masterpiece.
En la novela mínimo se superponen, como capas, cuatro realidades: La "realidad" en la cual Emmanuel sobrevive y está en la escuela donde conoce a Zina; luego, en la mente de Herb Asher que recuerda la vida vacía e inútil en las cápsulas del planeta CY30-CY30B donde pasa los días escuchando cintas de Linda Fox hasta que Yah (Yahvé) lo obliga a visitar a su vecina, Rybys Romney y aparece Elías Tate (el profeta Elías); luego se tuerce la realidad cuando van al reino de Zina y en el reino de Zina se vuelve a torcer la realidad cuando aparece el caos (Belial) y esas capas de realidad conforman una nueva, donde se desarrolla el final que es genial.
I consider The Divine Invasion to be much less satisfying than Valis.
Elijah gets the thankless "here comes God, everybody" role.
It should also be mentioned how incredibly awkward the science fiction elements of Dick's books are.
He invests no effort in creating a believable futuristic environment...the exception in The Divine Invasion is the tablet mentioned a few times, clearly a prediction of the IPad and similar devices, for the prophetic-minded of Dick's fans.
The Divine Invasion has to stand in the second tier of Dick's works.
A thinly veiled exposition of some of his religious reading and theorizing.
This book is great for the dialogue between the characters.
PKD takes a little bit from the various religions of the world and creates a science fiction story based very loosely on the second coming of Jesus Christ (Peace Be Upon Him).
One world being more real than the next, and in the end creating a sort of amalgamation of both.
I really enjoyed this book for the great moments of conversation between the characters.
We also learn a little bit about PKD's ideas about the beam of pink light that (he said) intervened in his own life to help him save his son.
This novel was a difficult read. It contains a lot of profound meditation on theological issues like divine omnipotence and the reality of evil. It is so abstract though and there is not much of a plot, just a lot of wordy and artificial dialogue. It is based on a mystical experience that Dick had and it seems like he didn't spend much time integrating these experiences into a novel. Part of the problem could be that this novel is a part of a trilogy, which I did not know before I started reading it.
"The Evil One in a cage at the zoo- what, with his own temperature and gravity and atmosphere, and imported food? An exotic life form?''He's angry as hell about it.'""You beguile me. You lead me from the path with sparks of light, dancing, singing, and the sound of bells; always the sound of bells.""Do not make war on it but bring flowers."
The Divine Invasion was a weird book, even by PKD standards.
Make no mistake, that isn’t necessarily a bad thing, but it just doesn’t come off as well as some of his other works.
This was the second in the VALIS trilogy, and it was basically a sci-fi retelling of the possible second coming of Jesus.
Truth be told, I don’t love when books are overly religious, and that made me dislike it a little more than I would have.
The way that PKD commented on free will vs “god’s plan” was cool as well.
Dick was fascinated with Gnostic Christianity, which holds that the real god was exiled and a false one presides over a false universe; only the return of the true god will restore reality.
It's almost a can't-miss concept, but it's made all the more fascinating when you place it within the broader framework of Dick's earlier novels - not just VALIS and Radio Free Albemuth, but plenty from even before his religious experience in the early '70s.The problem is, it's not much of a novel.
Granted, VALIS flips between philosophical discourse and bizarre plot, and I gave that five stars.
I found this book a little hard to categorize, and to think about! Basically, it's an allegorical treatise of the Divine Godhead (I think, that was my interpretation anyway)It seems a bit convoluted in that Yahweh is a little boy named Emanuel, Belial is a miniature goat, Mary is an MS survivor with hoarding tendencies, and the Prophet Elijah owns an audio/video store. But if you can go for the ride, and see the deeper picture, it's really a fabulous story!
Let's say that you tried to read PKD's VALIS and found it impenetrable and full of cryptic Gnostic revelations that meant nothing to you. In The Divine Invasion, Dick plays with the same ideas in a more traditional science fiction framework. It reads almost like a fairy tale. It's easy to understand and offers what I think is the best introduction to PKD's gnostic revelations. Start here for the best understanding of the Vast Active Living Intelligence System.
