https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16142053-going-clear

Not an untypical story of a modern cult: a paranoid narcissist with a few interesting ideas starts a religion, abuses his followers, and nearly implodes a couple of times before a sadomasochistic sociopath takes the reins, summoning dark order out of chaos.
Until all of a sudden it doesn't.This is a dreary book, for both these two--the narcissist Hubbard and the sociopath Miscavidge--are sad, vicious, and vile.
lawrence wright is the living badass who's written all about religion & the 'prison of belief', most notable for his truly great pulitzer prize winning study of radical islam, the looming tower.
i've written elsewhere in these hallowed halls of goodreads about the will to believe -- about how, atheist grouch and PTS/SP* that i am, on some level i'm deeply envious of tom cruise (OT VIII**) and some of those seriously fucked-to-the-core radical islamists.
in my opinion, these are the three options in coming to terms with this stuff.
He is almost painfully even-handed, even if the rain-on-the-roof effect of the constant footnotes cementing the Wall of Denial "the church" is trying to put up around his findings ("Tom Cruise has never met that person, the church would never pimp for Tom Cruise, Tom Cruise has never had a motorcycle, Tom Cruise may in fact be a holographic projection") is annoying.But....his main informant is Paul Haggis, who was a top celebrity member for nearly four decades, and who practiced an amazing level of denial and compartmentalization, until his love for his daughters punched through it.
“This is not a church or a religious organization,” the labor minister, Norbert Blum, told Maclean’s magazine. “Scientology is a machine for manipulating human beings.” Yes, I already saw the HBO documentary 'Going Clear' based on this hefty tome by Lawrence Wright, and so it was obvious that I'd just have to read the book that made it possible. After all, for any dedicated reader the idea that 'a picture is worth a thousand words' simply means that there are thousands of words that should be r
“This is not a church or a religious organization,” the labor minister, Norbert Blum, told Maclean’s magazine.
John Travolta gets a bit of attention - but nothing even close to the amount of pages dedicated to the current loud pro-Scientology mouthpiece Tom Cruise.
The focus of the organization on the cult of celebrity and feeding on the Hollywood culture is interesting given how much all the events that Wright lays out read like they were taken from any number of Hollywood productions.
They know nothing, Jon Snow.It's a very thorough investigation into the phenomenon that is Scientology told through the experiences of the most prominent figures and the loudest voices in the organization.
What a hoot!
A religion started by a bad science-fiction writer.
And I thought the history of the Roman Catholic church was scandalous.
It is, but the Church of Scientology is giving that hoary institution a run for its money —and it's all about the money of course.
The Roman Catholic Church has had two millennia in which to refine its all too pleasant modus operandi.
The Church of Scientology has achieved its notoriety in about 1/40th of the time.
I think most will agree that that's quite a start.
I really don't care what you believe as long as your core belief is that you respect our lands...and try to follow some kind of belief system that isn't harmful of others or future generations.Yup- I am a dirty non-believing, non-God fearing environmentalist.My beliefs are that most religions are stemmed from crazy people- and if you are a radical believer who takes logic out of the equation- then I don't really have any respect for you...as I am sure you have no respect for me.Scientology is at the tippity top of my list.
Wright gets an extra star and my slack-jawed admiration for his willingness to face stalking, slander, harassment, and a potential avalanche of bankrupting litigation in order to write a book that his own UK publisher wouldn't even release for fear of the retaliatory powers of what I initially thought was just a bunch of kooky, celebrobsessed Fox Mulder types, but who are actually just a 100% fucking terrifying cult, cult, cult who sues or smears or snuffs out anyone and everyone who gets in their way.
And there are stories of how church leaders harassed and threatened IRS workers until they were officially declared a "religion," and thus could avoid paying taxes.But before the stories of beatings and harassment and forced separations, there is the history of the founder of Scientology, L.
Paul finally left after learning the church was against same-sex marriage, and hearing stories of the cruel treatment of gays.I found this book to be fascinating, both in its stories of specific church members, including Hollywood celebrities, and in its history of the founder, Hubbard, and its current leader, Miscavige.
Every organized religion has it's bat-shit-crazy parts.
It was formed by bat-shit-crazy L.
This 'church' has held people against their will for years and has somehow avoided being shut down.
One girl was put on the Scientology boat when she was just 18 and was held there for twelve years....TWELVE!
Tsk tsk.This is only a small part of the crazy.I recommend this book to everyone, especially a person who is thinking "You know, maybe Scientology is for me?" No it's not.
If you do read this book and join Scientology anyway, then you too are bat-shit-crazy.
Holy shit!Footnote: This book would be a fraction of the size without all of the legal disclaimers and denials from Tom Cruise’s lawyers and from the Church of Scientology. Maybe just a blanket statement at the beginning would’ve sufficed?!
Right now I am reading every book I can about Scientology and about people escaping the religion.
However, compared to most book about Scientology, I found this book to be kind of boring.
I thought it had interesting material but the author dragged it out too long.The book talked about the inner workings of the Church of Scientology.
He talked about its struggles to find acceptance as a legitimate religion and its efforts to grow and expand after the death of Hubbard.Like I said earlier, this book had good material but it was too dragged out to be enjoyed throughly.
Ron Hubbard's Battlefield Earth*.
Like Neil deGrasse "Awesome" Tyson said in a Daily Beast interview in March of 2015, "So, you have people who are certain that a man in a robe transforms a cracker into the literal body of Jesus saying that what goes on in Scientology is crazy?
Let’s realize this: What matters is not who says who’s crazy, what matters is we live in a free country.
You can believe whatever you want, otherwise it’s not a free country—it’s something else." Going Clear is scary because it makes you think that we ALL are just a bit crazy.* Mitt Romney's favorite book.
I honestly don't understand how anyone could have listened to L. Ron Hubbard and thought, "Yeah, that guy knows what he's talking about." I'm almost done with this book but I think my favorite part just happened. A scientologist was offended by the notion of the leader, David Miscavige, being compared to Martin Luther King, Jr. The notion that someone would consider that to be an unfavorable association actually made me laugh out loud.Fascinating. Just fascinating.
Quick and Dirty Analysis (I know I can get long-winded) Good book, well-researched, that will tell you all you want to know (and possibly more) about the inner workings of Scientology.
Ron) was/is free to make unilateral decisions with harsh consequences.
There's basically a checklist of techniques that social psychologists have drawn up that, historically, groups (many of which have been called cults) have employed to elicit obedience and sacrifice from their members.* While a single technique is not itself all that powerful, the combination can be a perfect storm of destructive, blind obedience (e.g. Jonestown).
- Fear mongering, yes on so many levels (seriously, just read a book).
Hubbard seemed to be suffering from some kind of psychotic illness.
It's like reading how to be a psychotic con man 101.
I always question how people suspend rational thought long enough to believe in any religion.
I really liked Lawrence explaining that people who join these organizations are just wanting to be better people, do more for their fellow man and want to improve themselves.
Tom Cruise seems to have every advantage of ordered servants of the cult without having to see or acknowledge the abuse the "normal" people in this organization have to go through.
My only regret is that it is all so terribly true."- Woodrow Wilson, on first viewing "The Birth of a Nation"In "Going Clear" Lawrence Wright does something that surprised me: he managed to make Scientology (or, at least, the people who run the Church) more repellant to me than they were going in, but he also manages to satisfactorily explain how such an organization could come to be and why people would follow it.
The second is an evenhanded look at the more sensational and deranged behavior of the church post 1989.
David Miscavige's behavior is Maoist, with the sometimes violent abuse of his subordinates (e.g. making them lick bathroom floors) to making his flock sever relations with their family.
The listing of tasks, or Levels, for achieving enlightenment, is a viscerally satisfying process.
It might be like the 12 steps for A-A, or achievements for video games, or checking books off your to-read list.
However, he does not shy away from the administrative abuses of the church, and the questions of what a paranoid insular movement can do when separated from society.
If you're an ardent Scientologist, you probably won't want to read this book, but for anyone who's interested in looking at this group's origins, the life of its founder, its beliefs and the goings on within, it's a definite must read.
The author was, in his own words, "drawn to write this book" based on a number of questions many people have regarding Scientology: what makes it so "alluring;" what its adherents gain from it; how "seemingly rational people" can subscribe to beliefs that most people would see as "incomprehensible;" why celebrities and other "popular personalities" get themselves involved when the end result is a "public relations martyrdom;" etc.
This is the man who is one of Tom Cruise's best friends and served as his best man for his weddings to both Nicole Kidman and Katie Holmes.Wright does an able job of exposing the class structure of Scientology, the way the celebrities at the top are caressed and catered to and anyone below them is available to be abused for any small infraction.
Why do John Travolta, Tom Cruise, Anne Archer, Greta van Susteren, Jenna Elfman, Beck, and any number of other celebrity Scientologists stay with a "religion" that is an abusive cult?
Harrowing, well-written and researched.Yet at two crucial points the narrative jumped to a head-scratching conclusion.
Suddenly this person has written Dianetics.
Same with how David Miscavige suddenly elbows aside LRH's chosen successors.
Not enough info about how he did it and where he came from.The book's conclusion was unsatisfying.
It trails off in Paul Haggis's renunciation of Scientology.
The author gives us relevant and contextual information about other new American religions such as Later Day Saints and Christian Science while examining the question of what-is-a-religion, but missing is a satisfying summing up of the state of Scientology today and prospects for the future.
The only difference between the two is that Battlefield Earth - the long story of Jonnie Goodboy Tyler fighting the evil Psychlos - is fiction, and the story of Xenu and his nuclear holocaust is not - at least according to Hubbard (who also tried turning it into a film, but failed to secure enough funding).Much of Going Clear is a character study of various individuals who were at one point or still are associated with Scientology, with most focus put on three people - the director and screenwriter Paul Haggis, actors Tom Cruise and John Travolta, and the current leader of the Church, David Miscavige.
He also used his own research to create an elaborate step program for believers, promising more power and authority the higher one rose in the levels.Hubbard comes across as delusional, or a clever illusionist who struggled all his life to find a way to achieve the glory and attention he thought he deserved.
I came to think the Catholic Church was a large, empty mitre, but that was back after I’d stopped being indoctrinated daily in my near-teens.)No matter what Scientologists believe, Wright’s book is a damning assessment of the Church of Scientology, pointing out instances of criminal behavior and flagrant abuse still going on.
Dear Lawrence Wright,Sincerely,Me* * *I'm finding it impossible to organize the hundreds of thoughts I have about this book.The only regret I have is that it could have been far more comprehensive...if That Authoritarian Cult had a cooperative bone in its twisted little body.
This was a well researched book and I found it very fascinating and scary. I really don't understand the lure of Scientology but then again I am not in a position to. Am I nervous to leave a detailed review...slightly. But my review is short mostly because I am pressed for time, or so I tell myself.
Be suspicious of any contract for indentured servitude that lasts a billion years.
This is such a great book, I want to punch someone in the face.Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, & the Prison of Belief is written in three parts as the name suggests, all equally gripping.
In Going Clear we learn that since LRH’s death, David Miscaviage has gained absolute power over the organization and its senior members, who fear him like a god.
It's a modern-day case study for digital advertising.The e-mag's post, "David Miscavige Leads Scientology to Milestone Year" may have passed for an article, except for the "Sponsor Content" box at the top.
Incredibly interesting tale of L Ron Hubbard and Scientology.
Wright considers all viewpoints and tries to help the reader understand what made Hubbard tick and why so many people followed his teachings.
The most abhorrent aspects of Scientology were its totalitarian hold on the lives of its followers.
Scientologists make money by requiring expensive training of their followers.
They fight everyone who tries to tell the truth including the IRS with harrassment and expensive lawsuits.
While Wright says that according to census data there are only about 30,000 Scientologists today, their power remains strong.
Reading this I thought I'd learn more about Scientology's secret doctrine.
Just what exactly do they teach at OT III (answer: it's crazy)...
Who was L Ron Hubbard (answer: a crazy person, to say the least)...
I was shocked to learn about many of the abuses perpetrated by church leaders against lower ranked Scientologists.
Shocked to read about the level to which Tom Cruise and other celebrities are complicit in these abuses (especially Tom Cruise).
I was left with the knowledge that Scientology isn't just some hilarious pseudo-religion dreamt up by a science fiction writer, but an organization rife with abuse and coercion, bent on destroying its own members financially, emotionally and sometimes physically.
Great book. Review later when I read it again. Ugh. Don't become a SCIENTOLOGIST!
