https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202033.The_Way_West
It is an American story, a fictional novel about travelers on The Oregon Trail, but it is appealing to all people, as it is about all people.
The "humble, hurtful, anxious, hoping," as Mr. Guthrie says.As a former Lit teacher, I could go nuts here, telling you how brilliant the writing, how subtle the metaphors, how well crafted the characters.
but I will instead just advise you to discover it yourself.I don't know what competition Mr. Guthrie's novel had when it was short listed for the Pulitzer in 1950, but I do know that the people at Pulitzer make mistakes.
Okay, maybe it is a better idea, but they don’t talk about going fishing.
Now back to the story: So they packed up their reluctant wives, their cattle, excited dogs, and the weevils that live in their flour and take off down the road.Soon after leaving, maybe a month into the trip, some begin having second thoughts, wouldn’t you if you had been fighting Indians, dealing with rain storms that leave your wagons stuck deep in mud, and running out of wood that causes you to have to pick up buffalo chips to use for heat and cooking?
Like the wagon train it describes, I thought this was a little slow to get started and it suffered in comparison to the masterpiece that is The Big Sky. But then it gathered momentum and the characters came into their own. By the end, it put me in mind of The Grapes of Wrath - with its emphasis on the foibles on humanity in the face of such awesome obstacles and the trials of life.
His review is glowing, but the thing that really sums it up is; "...the author captured the quintessence of the entire experience..."Couldn't say it better myself.The Way West isn't for everyone.
But it's a story about human beings.
When Brownie is thinking of ways to get Mercy McBee to fall in love with him, we are reminded of all the stupid things we did at his age to get the attention of the other sex.
It plods, but so do oxen and people...all 2,000 miles to Oregon.
B. Guthrie Jr.'s earlier novel, The Big Sky, which was about mountain men travelling in the same general area, this one has a train filled with families.
It is, thankfully, less brutal than The Big Sky, but no less heart-wrenching.One character from the earlier novel is here: Dick Summers, with whom I fell in literary love the first time around.
But then I fell in love with a different man, too!
And in that other man, I see my own husband, and I'm feeling very lucky.This book has so much - heroic men, strong women, scandal, young love, big storms, stampedes, snakes, scenery, movement - something for every reader.
THE WAY WEST. (1949). A. B. Guthrie, Jr. ****. If one were able to have read this novel in the year of its publication, he would have been amazed at the author’s ability to depict character within his players and striking features of the landscape through which they moved. It was a far cry from most of the western novels that came before. Reading this in 2012 spawns a disappointment because all of the innovative features of this novel have now become cliche. Its effect on subsequent writers was
If one were able to have read this novel in the year of its publication, he would have been amazed at the author’s ability to depict character within his players and striking features of the landscape through which they moved.
Guthrie’s novel continues the adventures of one of his mountain men who we met earlier in “The Big Sky,” Dick Summers.
The other outstanding feature of this novel is the depiction of the various territory through which the wagon train moved.
Films were made of both this novel and “The Big Sky,” which I plan to see when I find them.
2.5 stars.
I've been obsessed with The Oregon Trail since I first saw Independence!
Because of my obsession, I would never have thought that my predominant emotion over a Pulitzer Prize winning novel about the Oregon Trail would be boredom.
For the most part they could have been sitting still twiddling their thumbs the whole time.Still, it was probably worth it for the convo among the men when they were trying to figure out if the women should be asked to cook with buffalo chips.
Can't have them women knowing that a buffalo has an ass, ya know?
The Way West, an Oregon Trail wagon train tale, is a sequel to The Big Sky, which is a mountain man saga.
He begins with the formation of a group containing men and women who seek, variously, land, adventure, American domination of the continent, et al, and follows them and across what was to become a well-worn trail before leaving them in sight of Fort Vancouver on the Columbia River in early September.
Stuart, whom I adore, made many westerns, some darker that others, and Cooper is the sheriff abandoned by those he has sworn to protect, in the classic High Noon.Guthrie's novel was made into a 1967 film of the same name, starring three Hollywood big ticket stars: Richard Widmark, Robert Mitchum, and Kirk Douglas.
The Big Sky, in which Dick Summers is a mountain man, with a deeply felt attachment to the mountains of Oregon, thus making him an ideal candidate to pilot the train in the sequel.
He appears again in Guthrie's third book, Fair Land, Fair Land, as Summers with a conservationist-type character slant, from the mid nineteenth century.
I'm sad for the story to be over, happy for Lije Evans and his family, and amazed at the strong writing here.In November I read "Big Sky", which Mr. Guthrie wrote a year prior to this novel.
If we're lucky, we all know someone like Hig!If you have any interest in the Oregon Trail pioneers, circa 1845, you should read this book.
Funny because Guthrie didn't do that in Big Sky. Anyway, as I said, didn't bother me.
The way he is using it is when some of the characters are talking and referring to themselves in the third person, almost in place of the word "dude" or "guy".
A well-researched, historically informed story of a band of settlers going from Missouri to Oregon in 1845.Mr. Guthrie writes well, but not graphically, about the rigors of the trail.
It was years ago that I read The Big Sky, his original epic story about the development of the west, so my recollection may not be reliable, but I remember it as being more exciting than The Way West, with more action.
This book is more of a paean to the making of the West, with the settlers personifying the American spirit of adventure and questing for a better life.
If you're going to read one by Mr. Guthrie, make it The Big Sky.
This book is a classic for a reason. Read it if you love characters that become so real, you yearn for a sequel because you can't let them go. Read it if you love well written historical fiction. Just read it! It's amazing.
This was a good read, especially for a Western. Infinitely better than Lonesome Dove, with less predictable tropes and better writing. I liked the characters and was fairly vested in them, and the pacing was well done.
Gutherie shows great empathy for all of his characters, even the unlikable ones, and in the process creates a world so unerringly balanced and authentic, that when an instance of high drama finally does come to bear, say, a confrontation with Sioux Indians, or the fording of the Snake river, we embrace it with great anticipation and marvel that a story can be so entertaining while so true.
A balanced man was Evans, big, slow, growing in stature with the captaincy.
Other characters, besides Evans, such as his son, Brownie Evans, continue to grow on us throughout the journey to Oregon.
And in the same way, we the reader learn to care about Brownie and Mercy, Evans and his wife Rebecca.
But I didn’t find it to be such exceptional writing, nor such a profound story.
It was a nice, competent, satisfying western that captured and rather glorified the story of the Oregon trail migration.
There was just a tad bit too much of “nation-building” purpose in the story, which I didn’t find too endearing.
It certainly didn’t seem to have any meaning related to slavery and anti-black racism; but is was mostly used as a derogatory and dismissive descriptor of people.
But certainly not among one of the greats among the Pulitzers, and not even among the greats of the westerns that have won the prize.
The Big Sky >
3*
The definitive wagon train novel written by the definitive mountain man novel's author. Presents a rich array of true to life characters, men and women.

Each chapter is told from the point of view of one of the characters; this narrative form allows Guthrie to move the story ahead economically while simultaneously expanding on the reader's understanding of the characters by focusing on their thoughts about those events.
I also wasn't happy with the constant use of a racist term starting with the letter "N" which seemed especially gratuitous as there were no black characters in the novel.
In spite of some minor quibbles I'm glad I read The Way West (even though I wasn't really expecting to like it) and I'll likely seek out more of Guthrie's work in the future.
This story tells of the migration from the Missouri to Oregon and all the challenges the pioneers faced.
Guthrie does a good job defining perseverance through the thoughts, words and actions of the characters.
Guthrie does a very good job with the dynamics of the men and women and their myriad of personalities.
As much as the reader can see man versus himself (the perseverance to continue the journey in spite of the obstacles), man versus man (the competitiveness among the men in particular), I think this is man versus nature in its finest and through that challenge the other themes emerge.
There was one character that I liked and that was Dick, the old mountain man trapper who acted as the guide for the wagon train.
He seemed to be the main person with intelligence and good sense and I could relate to his subtle lamenting of the lost wilderness and to his remembrance of a time when he enjoyed close ties with the Native Americans he encountered in the mountains and on the plains.The main character Mr. Evans seemed to portray a man who managed by good common sense in a steady, dull but reliable manner even though he too seemed too simple minded for my taste.
It also reveals wagon-train politics which are not unlike today’s organizations where people with the supposed same goal disagree on how to reach it.The novel is one of six by Guthrie about the opening of the West between the 1830s and 1870s with some characters appearing in several books.Amazingly, the ruts of the trail are still visible in some places more than 150 years later.
Some years ago, on the way to a llama trek in the Wind River Range in Wyoming, we stopped in South Pass where Glenn took a picture of me standing in the middle of the trail in the middle of a big open high prairie.
La regione più ricca del nuovo continente è l'Oregon. Il mito dell'Oregon è il tema centrale di questo libro. I personaggi sono quasi tutti presi da questa "febbre" dell'Oregon. Dal capitano Evans, a suo figlio Brownie e tutti gli altri componenti della carovana.
I liked the sound of this book, but after reading it for a while, I didn't like where it was going. It also had a significant amount of language, which I didn't enjoy.
The United States and Britain settled their boundary dispute by an 1846 treaty, which worked a compromise and awarded the United States the territory that Americans already predominantly occupied.“The Way West” describes an 1845 journey over the Oregon Trail by a small band of settlers from Independence.
With the tension that develops with Evans, Tadlock and a small group of followers abandon the party and the journey to Oregon late in the book at a dividing point on the Oregon Trail to head for a safer, more routine life in California.As befitting a long journey by wagon train, the writing in this book varies.
Filled with musings both tender and harsh, the story of the westward crossing in the early days of it, here from Independence, MO to Vancouver.
The character of mountain man/guide Dick Summers a joy to read every page he appears.
The day-to-day, quiet extolling of life on the trail made this book a real gem, and like it said in the NY Times encapsulation, a stirring book filled with tenderness.
Enjoy it, savor it, and wonder how it would have been to be there, cuz Guthrie delivers you to the scene with unabashed honesty.
Wonderful book!
Mala som na výzvu prečítať niečo, čo dostalo Pulitzerovu cenu.
Stehlíka som už čítala a doma som mala toto, Cestu od McCarthyho a Odviate vetrom...
nuž vyhrala cesta na západ :-)Príbeh ľudí z Independence, ktorí sa rozhodnú podniknúť ťažkú cestu na západ do Oregonu.
Nástrahy, putovanie, ľudské slabosti, sila, radosti, strasti, nádeje.
Guthrie nás postupne zoznamuje s jednotlivými členmi karavány, s niektorými viac, s inými menej, ponúka nám pohľad do ich duše a konania.
Veľkého muža s morálnymi zásadami, ktorý vlastnú silu nikdy nevyužíval zlým spôsobom a napriek vlastnej neistote sa snažil byť dobrým vodcom (hoci ním byť nechcel) i stmeľovačom celej karavány.
This is a wonderful novel of the Oregon Trail, and one of the things that is great about it is that it portrays real life from the perspective of both men and women.
Guthrie had a philosophical streak, and a way of understanding people, men and women, young and old, religious and not, Indian and White.
I have a lot of admiration for that man and the way he wrote.
Went to a museum recently that had a wagon from the Oregon Trail.
I highly recommend this to anyone who has an interest in the way west, esp.
the Oregon Trail, sans big man heroism.
The story is engaging, the descriptions of the landscape and various areas are exactly the way I remember seeing them during various visits, and he makes the joys and dangers of the journey come alive and seem real.
The old mountain man, Dick Summers, from "The Big Sky", is hired to take a wagon train to Oregon.
The story is told from various points of view so we get a glimpse into the mindset of many members of the wagon train and how they react to different situations.
The main character is Lije Evans plus his family but we get to see the migration west from the view of women, men, leaders, and average men.
