https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9279177-the-lover-s-dictionary
People who get super creative with books are always taking a big risk, you know... writing in verse, two authors writing a POV each, and now this: a novel written like a dictionary. A series of random words from A to Z each representing something about the protagonist's most recent relationship:abstraction, n. Love is one kind of abstraction. And then there are those nights when I sleep alone, when I curl into a pillow that isn't you, when I hear the tiptoe sounds that aren't yours.It's a very
Love is one kind of abstraction.
And then there are those nights when I sleep alone, when I curl into a pillow that isn't you, when I hear the tiptoe sounds that aren't yours.It's a very quick read, some pages only having one sentence on them, but I found that David Levithan's creativity risk paid off here and resulted in a witty but sad tale of when love doesn't work out.
His humour is often rather crude but still hilarious, and I like how he never presents readers with the rose-tinted version of life and love.
I really liked how brutally honest the protagonist was in the entries, but the story was too disjointed for me to love it. It was interesting how there were entries about positive things from their relationship, and then suddenly I would get three negative ones in a row. I liked that it was unpredictable, just like an actual relationship. Enjoyable, but I was hoping for a bit more.
Had I not seen the movie, I would have not liked this book, i.e., meaning 1-star rating.
So, I always made sure, each day of my life for the past 18 years, that I put the cap back to the tube.
Come on, man, think of better and updated stuff to put in your book!But this is a book supposed to be for people who are in love or in love with love.
Anyway, next week is another Valentine’s Day. The day reminds us the importance of love and so I rate this book with 2 stars.
Very creative! I do not doubt David Levithan’s ingenuity and even though I may not always be a fan of his stories (including this), I AM of his writing, intellect and boldness. I didn’t think it was possible to create a book with only so many pages and with only a paragraph or two a page but somehow, the author made it work. P.S. Happy belated birthday to my dear friend, Ann who celebrated her birthday on November 1. I hope you had an amazing day, my sweet friend. <3
The lover’s dictionary, David LevithanThe Lover's Dictionary is a 2011 novel by the American author David Levithan.
It is his first novel for adults.
This modern love story is told entirely through dictionary entries which are brief and concise having a very unusual pattern and style.
A nameless narrator tells the story of a relationship through dictionary entries.
The story does not unfold in chronological order; instead, it is arranged alphabetically by dictionary entries which give glimpses into the joys and struggles the characters face over the course of their relationship.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی ام ماه می سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: فرهنگ لغات عشق؛ نویسنده: دیوید لویتان؛ مترجم: سید مصطفی رضیئی؛ تهران، کوله پشتی، 1393؛ در 206 ص؛ شابک: 9786006687940؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی ؛ سده 21 ما.
I love how this book explores the range of all different emotions people could ultimately experience in a relationship.
Each page starts with a word dictionary style, and that's the format for the whole book which tells the story of a couple.
(Spoiler for language and spoiling the story a bit)(view spoiler)[“livid, adj.Fuck You for cheating on me.
If you are simply a person who knows the feeling of devastating heartbreak, and what to feel you're not alone check this book out.I only wish this would have been longer.
I've been trying to construct a review in my head for this book all weekend, having finished reading it on Saturday morning, but no matter what I came up with, I feel that it will not fully represent the feelings I had while reading this book.
Plus, when I started devouring the first few pages of the book, I knew I wasn't looking for a love story to read, not really.
But when I finally closed the book with a satisfied sigh, I again realized that I haven't read a romance in a long, long time, and The Lover's Dictionary is just about perfect for the purpose.
Apologies to my library pals who loved this. I was really into it at first, but after a while I grew weary of him. It's probably because I've known more than my share of emotionally precious aging hipster manchildren (my friends and I like to call them "All the Sad Young Literary Men") to have much patience for them. Throughout the second half of the book, all I could think was DUDE, I WOULD'VE CHEATED ON YOU TOO.
But Leviathan does something very neat here - he writes a love story as a series of dictionary entries, each highlighting some part of the relationship.
Of all the things I thought would go wrong, I never thought it would be that."It was a mistake, " you said.
But the cruel thing was, it felt like the mistake was mine, for trusting you.bemoan, v.This is dedicated to your co-worker Marilynn.Marylinn, please stop talking about your sister's pregnancy.And please stop showing up late.And please stop asking my lover to drinks.And please stop humming while you type.I am tired of hearing about it.
I found myself, pen in hand, underlining all of the passages that spoke to me, all of the passages that I had lived in some way or another in my past.
It’s exhilarating when you relate to a book and walk away feeling "hey there’s someone else out there who gets it, who has been where I have been." But it can be temporarily damaging when you are reminded of all of the sadness and losses of the past.“Ubiquitous, adj.
It’s there in the book you’re reading.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐[9/10]⏩Anachronism- nounIn a story, chronological order is indispensable. What? It doesn't have to be. David Levithan writes, We do not divulge our histories chronologically. It’s not like we can sit each other down and say, “Tell me what happened,” and then rise from that conversation knowing everything. Most of the time, we don’t even realize that we’re dividing ourselves into clues. This is not another of those stories where you expect a happy ending. Or a sad ending. Or an ending. A
David Levithan writes,
It’s not like we can sit each other down and say, “Tell me what happened,” and then rise from that conversation knowing everything.
Happens every time I have to review a beautiful book(aesthetically and content-wise) like this one.
I wish I hadn't gotten there sooner.⏩Bereavement- nounThat's what I felt when I got to Z.⏩Dictionary- nounA simpleton like me, when asked to write, has to seek help.
Or, when asked to read.Like, Concise Oxford English Dictionary or Merriam Webster's or David Levithan's Lovers Dictionary.
Trying to write about love is ultimately like trying to have a dictionary represent life.
the other 20 minutes was taken up with me scrawling large chunks of this book into my notebook, then running out of ink and trying to find a biro that worked) and I loved every second of it.It was funny, sweet, heart-wrenching and beautiful.I don't normally choose theme tunes for non-YA books but I just have to for this one.Teardrop by Massive Attack.For some weird reason, I'm always reluctant to use my favourite bands/songs for the theme tunes but the line "love, love is a verb, love is a doing word" has been running around my mind ever since I picked this book up so I'm making the exception just once.yarn,n.Maybe language is kind, giving us these double meanings.
Don't you dare tell me that this is cheesy stuff. This is exactly the kind of book I prefer.Speaks volumes if you want to go out and figure out the documentation of two people being in love. It is messy and it is fun. It is good and it is bad. People laugh and people cry. The important thing being with each other.Enter my wife.She read this book and decided to write one along similar lines herself. The next thing I know is being handed over a present of our version of The Lover's Dictionary. If
The important thing being with each other.Enter my wife.She read this book and decided to write one along similar lines herself.
If I were to show it to you by publishing it and make a Goodreads' page of it, you'd be highly skeptical; for it contains only positive moments from the niches of me and my wife's heart.All I can say in my defense is that there are only positive moments for both of us to write.As far as I can remember I will only take the good memories from the original book.
The bad things don't last.
Being a person who is truly, deeply, madly in love, I was bound to love this book. I'm feeling like dancing!
I nearly gave this 3.5 stars, but oh, the creativity! There's always extra points for creativity. Always.  Trying to write about love is ultimately like trying to have a dictionary represent life. No matter how many words there are, there will never be enough.  [From ineffable, adj.]If Forest Gump taught you that life is a box of chocolates, The Lover's Dictionary teaches you that love isn't. Using mere words, and in an extraordinarily creative diary-like format, Levithan shows everyone the diff
[From ineffable, adj.]If Forest Gump taught you that life is a box of chocolates, The Lover's Dictionary teaches you that love isn't.
Using mere words, and in an extraordinarily creative diary-like format, Levithan shows everyone the different sides of love - the good, the bad, and the ugly; the ups and downs; the traditions and the quirks; the earth-shattering moments, and the heart shattering ones.
I have been in love exactly two times in my life.
And during the trying times, maybe this invented word saved us.
[From fraught, adj.]The first time my (second) ex told me he loved me, I said "okay".
ریویوم رو اصلاح کردم و در یک نفس نصفۀ موندۀ کتاب رو خوندم، از اونجایی که به بیماری کتاب نصفه رها نکردن دچارم. میخوام یهکم خودمو سرزنش کنم که چرا اصلاً رفتم سراغ این! درواقع چون چندتا یوتیوبرِ کتابخون رو دنبال میکنم، چندتا کتاب جدید با سبک نوشتار خاص رو میخواستم که به این برخوردم. بله من این مدل دیکشنری بودنش رو خیلی دوست داشتم و نحوهای که کلمات به ذهن نویسنده متبادر میشدن. اما فقط همین. بااینکه خودم توی رابطهم اما خیلی کم با این کتاب ارتباط برقرار کردم. توی ریویوها میخوندم که این کتاب رو فقط کسا
می‌خوام یه‌کم خودمو سرزنش کنم که چرا اصلاً رفتم سراغ این!
بااینکه خودم توی رابطه‌م اما خیلی کم با این کتاب ارتباط برقرار کردم.
توی ریویوها می‌خوندم که این کتاب رو فقط کسایی که توی رابطه‌ن و عاشقن یا یه روزگاری بودن درک می‌کنن.
ولی خودمو به‌زور دنبال داستان می‌کشیدم.
چرا این‌قدر شخصیت داستان خنکه؟ اصلاً برام کشش نداشت.
فقط فرم کتاب برام جدید بود و جذبم می‌کرد.
وگرنه نوشتارش و طوری که احساسات رو توصیف می‌کرد شبیه دلنوشته‌های دخترهای پونزده شونزده ساله بود که رفتن توی رابطه و زور می‌زنن با این کار بگن بزرگ شدن.
The Lover's Dictionary did that to me.Allow me to share one of my favorite entries."brash, adj.'I want you to spend the night,' you said.
Its unique and addictive structure - a dictionary with alphabetized entries each serving as a short passage - was literally like nothing I've ever read before, and the romance was well-written and wonderfully realistic.
It did not satisfy me and I felt like because of it the story was entirely rising action with no true climax.However, I would recommend this short and quick read to anyone, especially those who are fans of romance.
reread because its valentines day! so that means i have a hot date with this book, some chocolate, and a cosy blanket. its amazing how the concept of words and definitions can tell a love story. its books like this that challenge my conception of how a novel should read and i love them for it. who knew a dictionary could be so entertainingly adorable?! 5 stars
But it's good to know how other people do in their love life, tho.
To me, this book is like a collection of short stories BUT mostly too short to get myself into it.
Or maybe it's like a diary of someone who's in a relationship and there I was reading a love life of this beautiful and funny couple on earth, which was entertaining in some parts.
What I like most about this book is the uniqueness of the idea.
I can now move on to a new book with a more solid story.
My favorite entry is 
Whether somebody says something in earnest or dips it in the bitter liquid of sarcasm, whether their eyes sparkle when they say it or they look down, whether they're dissembling or honest, whether it's offhanded or a moment weighted with meaning.But some words are universal, and they always feel the same- if I describe a person as incandescent, you don't need me to tell you that they're brilliant, luminous, splendiferous.
We all have different experiences, hopes, dreams, fears, expectations, and those colour the words we use just as much as they do our lives.Trying to review The Lover's Dictionary is like trying to define love- it flits around the edges, slips out of your grasp, demands to be felt instead of explained.
This was really beautiful
Short commute to work? Buy this book. Short attention span? Buy this book. Need a bathroom read? Buy this book. Love got you feeling down? Buy this book. Love got you feeling up? Buy this book.Love hiding from you? Buy this book. Need your socks rocked off? BUY THIS BOOK!
Original post at One More PageWhen I first heard about David Levithan's latest book,  The Lover's Dictionary,  I wanted to read it only because of the clever idea behind the book. I love anything that involves wordplay. I loved the idea that this book is told using dictionary words, and for some reason, this gives me the feeling that this book has a universal feel to it, like anyone could relate to an entry here at one point. I ordered a copy off Book Depository a few weeks ago after I realized
I loved the idea that this book is told using dictionary words, and for some reason, this gives me the feeling that this book has a universal feel to it, like anyone could relate to an entry here at one point.
To not let the dauntingness daunt us.I'm pretty sure the story the authors intended for the characters here is not the same for everyone, but I think everyone who's ever loved will find that they are able to relate to one or two or more entries in 
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/5 STARS!Since I’m a huge Levithan fangirl, I got myself prepared to write this review by deciding to flag every “definition” that made me feel something while I was reading. Well, I definitely felt some things and flagged all some of the pages . . .  My feelings ranged from magical  like in the definitions of cache and gingerly and meander and posterity and rifle and sacrosanct and transient and unabashedly and woo and yesterdayto amus
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/5 STARS!Since I’m a huge Levithan fangirl, I got myself prepared to write this review by deciding to flag every “definition” that made me feel something while I was reading.
Drop whatever you are reading and go read Two Boys Kissing.)“No matter how many words there are, there will never be enough.”I am so enamored with Levithan’s writing that I am consciously spacing out his books and not allowing myself to consume them all because I know the above quote will hold true.In an effort to avoid being sued by the author for republishing his work in its entirety while desperately attempting to convey my feelings in this review, I’m throwing in the towel and just telling you to read The Lover’s Dictionary.
I gravitate towards this book quite a lot and this has been my forth year reading it in a row.
This time I could actually experience it from the perspective of someone who lived through some of the situations that are described in this book and I found it to be even more relatable.
Also, fun fact, since the names of the main characters aren't mentioned and the whole book is written in second person, you can read it both as a male-female relationship story as well as a male-male one.
Full disclosure, I might have blinders on where this author is concerned because every book of his that I've read, I've really enjoyed...
(Nick and Norah, Dash and Lily, the Will Graysons even Naomi and Ely were all wonderful reads!) With Lover's Dictionary, I didn't know what I was getting into.
One need not strain one's imagination to see how a word applied, because it just DID.
Each entry showed a different facet, a different stage of being in a relationship.
Succintly putting each aspect/facet/stage of the experience into a word, one word.
I thought Lover's Dictionary SMART, FUNNY at times, but definitely DIFFERENT.
-3.5-"Y me descubrí pensando: si esto sigue adelante, si no se acaba, cuando muera, los recuerdos que deje en ti serán mi mayor logro en esta vida."Cuanto cuquismo junto en un mismo libro, por Dios.
In order to have a lover, I must go back to the root of the word.
For I have never wanted a lover, but I have always wanted to love, and to be loved.There is no word for the recipient of the love.
There is the assumption that lovers come in pairs.When I say, Be my lover, I don’t mean, Let’s have an affair.
I don’t mean, Sleep with me.
I don’t mean, Be my secret.I want us to go back down to that root.I want you to be the one who loves me.I want to be the one who loves you.why wouldn’t one want to read more?3.5 stars
This little book is written beautifully. Perfect reading for a Sunday evening, Id imagine it'd be good for travelling too, when you have time to ponder and look out the window. It's delightful and sombre, honest too I think. Those that really stood out were:Abstraction, arrears, blemish, breathtaking, disarray, juxtaposition, only and yearning. My favourite's being:Sacrosanct and posterity.But if I had to pick one....rest, v. and n.Rest with me for the rest of this.That’s it. Come closer.We’re here.Very nicely done.
It just reminded me that I haven't cried over fiction since Charlotte's Web.Simply put, this book is an interesting way to tell a modern love story (from a writer's perspective), and an interesting way to see vocabulary words in new ways (from a reader's) while you watch different aspects of a relationship come together, stay together, fall apart, and then go through these stages again.
:DClearly I'm not the right audience for this book and I might've picked it up at an inconvenient time which is too bad because I do like the way David Levithan uses words.
