https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60892.Lakota_Woman
Our night light is the moon and our director, our Great Spirit, is the sun."The words above are from a prayer by Leonard Crow Dog, and pretty much sums up what motivated the Indians.The Wounded Knee incident had its beginnings during the “Trail of Broken Treaties protests in the autumn of 1972, when Native Americans from all over the U.S. A converged on Washington to protest against injustices done to their community.
I can't think of a book from which i've ever learned more. This book is raw, powerful and important.
Richard Erdoes accompanied Mary, and he also signed his name under Mary’s.When I read Lakota Woman in 1994, I enjoyed what I learned about the Lakota Sioux Nation’s people, customs, and history.
I’m writing a historical novel, and need to validate any facts I might include in my book.Lakota Woman is just as fascinating a read in 1994 as it was today.
Mary described her life, but she included other American Indians in her book.She was raised in a one room shack, filled with many family members, with no amenities, much like camping.
Powerful, heartbreaking and sometimes infuriating story of Mary Crow Dog and her life in her own words. Also interesting, giving a glimpse into traditions and culture of Native Americans and their religious beliefs.
Mary Crow Dog has done a wonderful job of telling the story of her life.
She is authentic, and she tells her story with truth and clarity.
I admired Mary Crow Dog as I was reading, and I admire her even more now, having finished.
In the pages of her autobiography, Mary Crow Dog gives us her memories, her experiences, thoughts, and feelings - her life, which is all any of us has to give.
The other books I've read this month have been non-fiction of a different sort - mostly history books written by white men who weren't even alive during the time they wrote about.This is a book that is modern enough for readers to realize that the United States continue to have difficulty relating to and working with Native American communities.
I cannot imagine fighting some of her fights in the condition she was in, or even later while she was trying to protect her newborn son.I appreciated the different perspective this book brought me in relation to some of the other things I've read this month.
I love Native American culture, especially the writing, but this book didn't thrill me. It is interesting from an educational perspective, but the woman herself gets overly defensive and offensive in a way that lacks in wisdom, which would be fine except for the fact that I think she thinks she is being wise. The defensiveness and offensiveness is fine and VERY understandable, but sometimes it just becomes too much - too glaring that it chips away any poignancy; sometimes it's like it leaves nothing to the imagination.
Then it is done, no matter how brave its warriors nor how strong their weapons." Cheyenne proverbThe history of the American Indian Movement (AIM) was like a lot of social/racial justice movements, especially in how much fear and loathing such movements evoked from the larger society and from law enforcement.
Unlike Ojibwa Warrior: Dennis Banks and the Rise of the American Indian Movement which seemed to me more about AIM as a whole, Brave Bird's voice is strong and it's unapologetic.
The Indian nurses bringing in the wounded under a hail of fire were braver than many warriors."Much like Dennis Banks, Mary Crow Dog (Brave Bird), they admit AIM was as much a spiritual movement as a political one.
Mary seems like a marginal character in the described events, however little that matters, and I wonder how much of the text is written herself, and how much penned after her descriptions by Richard Erdoes.
In the end, these details are not so important, as it is obvious that what may be embellished or written up does not remove the clear history surrounding the events, and we get a great inside view from the book.
I was dying to find concrete information on her life and where she ended up, but I discovered only an "unofficial" website that had a photo of what looked like here in a small apartment, looking sad and tired.
I've read this book several times in the past and really, really enjoyed reading it again.
Mary Crow Dog's courage, integrity and strength are amazingly inspiring.
After having done quite a bit of cultural studies, this time it gave me also a real felt sense of the predicament of Native American culture, and with that large parts of the world population, of the difficult struggle in leap-frogging stages of development and the suffering this creates.
And perhaps it was also nagging my Objibway ancestor's fighter spirit - but I really love the spirit of the people and feel great sympathy with their struggle, which is easy to dismiss from a superior Postmodern standpoint.
The author grew up poor on the Rosebud Reservation in South Dakota, was forced to attend one of those boarding schools meant to eradicate Native American culture, and wound up joining AIM as a teenager and having a baby during the siege at Wounded Knee.I don’t necessarily know a lot about the author after reading this book, though that doesn’t seem to be her goal.
The book was worthwhile to me not so much on literary grounds but because it’s a topic I know little about; I grew up in a part of the U.S. without a prominent Native American community and realized through this book that being native in the Dakotas in the 1960s and 70s was a lot like being black in South at the same time.
One might question whether her retelling of the events at Wounded Knee is entirely objective but one thing is clear: Mary Crow Dog’s anger and reasons are understandable, her wounds are painful and the resentment runs deep.Favourite quotes:I was then white outside and red inside, just the opposite of an apple.My best friend was Annie Mae Aquash, a young, strong hearted woman from the Micmac Tribe with beautiful chil dren.
It is not always wise for an Indian woman to come on too strong.
She herself was beaten to death by a drunken tribal police man.
As someone who shamefully doesn't know a lot about American Indian history, I learned a lot from this book!
The book read as if she were sitting there telling stories of the things that happened in her life, as opposed to the book being crafted and organized on paper.
I admit I had to look up the Wounded Knee conflict when she started mentioning it (as one of those things she mentioned in passing repeatedly before telling the story about it), as I only knew of the massacre at Wounded Knee in 1890.
Und so kam es, dass ich dieses Buch gelesen habe, was ein einziger Tweet doch so ausrichten kann.Erster Satz:A nation is not conquered untilthe hearts of its womenare on the ground.Then it is done, no matterhow brave its warriorsnor how strong their weapons.-Cheyenne proverbI am Mary Brave Bird.Zusatzinformationen:Autorin: Mary Crow DogReihe: 1/2Seitenanzahl: 263Preis: 9,99€Genre: Memoiren, AutobiographieISBN: 978-006-0973-896Klappentext:"A powerful autobiography...
Mary Crow Dog tells about her life in Residential Schools, from the time when she wandered through life aimlessly, before she joined AIM, the American Indian Movement.
A deeply feminist book, my god, this woman had enough courage for two!Quotes:The traditional old, full-blood medicine men joined in with us kids.
This book has opened my eyes, it has allowed me to see the history of the American Indian.
I was surprised to learn how naive I was about American Indian history; the two weeks spent in High school learning about the American Indians do no justice to all the torture these beautiful people and culture have gone through.
This book allowed me to see that manifest destiny was just an excuse for the "white man" to steal land, exploit Indians, rape and kill Indian women, men and children.
This book will having you screaming, angry and most of all happy at the end.
Really interesting memoir about Mary Crow Dog, who gave birth she was with the American Indian Movement while AIM was holding Wounded Knee seige against the FBI in the 70's.
Amidst gunfire, she chose to stay and have her child there instead of leave (she probably would have been arrested upon leaving, then would have been involuntarily sterilized after giving birth as was the typical practice at the Pine Ridge Hospital).
I never knew that there had been a civil war type of situation on the Pine Ridge reservation, which was what lead to the take-over at Wounded Knee.
I might put this book down and try it again later - it has such amazing reviews on Amazon and Goodreads, but I was unable to get into it.
If I find that I'm avoiding reading, I know it's time to move on to another book.
It's very hard to grasp when in time she is writing about, and I have to keep trying to do the math to decide what year the stories are taking place.I noticed, both on a documentary I watched about the Trail of Tears and this book, that many of the Native Americans interviewed speak about their history using the pronouns 'We' and 'us' as though the events happened to them personally, versus 'They'.
Ongoing attempts to assimilate Indian people to white culture include sending kids away to boarding school, where oftentimes they were mistreated and, it seems, the nuns tried to "beat the red out of them."Mary follows a typical path into alcoholism and petty thievery--essentially what many people think of when they picture modern Native Americans.
Even going to the bathroom might mean ducking through a hailstorm of bullets.I'm still in the anger phase after reading this, because white people stole everything from American Indians, attempted to erase their culture, and still treat them as second class citizens in their own country.
This is so powerful and important. A must-read, especially for Americans.
Mary Crow Dog is a half-Native America woman who grew up in the poverty of a South Dakota reservation, near Pine Ridge.
She tells of the historical struggle of her people - the Oglala Sioux - against the United States government, and the abuse she suffered in Catholic schools.
Mary Crow Dog provides insight into the hopelessness and helplessness of Native Americans in the United States, and how those feelings translate into such high rates of alcoholism and suicide, and what such an identity among a people does to its women.
'Lakota Woman' is her memoir that was written in 1979 was not published until 1990 as the timing for a radical indigenous woman was not ripe after the turbulent decade of Indian civil rights movement or AIM (American Indian Movement) of the 1970s which had leapt back into the national psyche with the 1972 Trail of Broken Treaties and the 1973 Indian Occupation at Wounded Knee of which Mary Brave Bird was a participant, actually giving birth to her son during a firefight with the FBI at that infamous location dating back to the original massacre of Indians at Wounded Knee in 1890.
I learned so much about the plight of native Americans, their misuse at the hands of the US government and the importance and meaning of their traditional ceremonies that I feel a deep regard for these people.
Even if the book is exaggerated and not quite objective (and I do not know that), it is an insightful look into the lives of important Americans.
I also think that Mary Crow Dog is honest about the living conditions of her people; she rejects the idea of their poverty but also encourages the reader to look beyong the problems and glimpse the inner lives of those on the reservations.
It's Mary Crow Dog's life experiences as a Lakota Sioux woman, as a member of the AIM movement, of being the wife of a revered medicine man and chief, and of her struggles with being an American Indian.
And that is what is most alarming and disturbing about the book - the way American Indians were treated, have been treated, and probably still are treated in modern America.
It's shocking to find out from Mary that even as recent as almost 40 years ago, Indians were being persecuted and treated as if they were a dredge on society, as if they alone are the cause of what is wrong with the world.
This autobiography is a really cool window into Native American life, particularly the AIM movement, in the 1970s.
There are still Native Americans, they still have lives, and they're still getting dumped on a lot of the time.
These are events that I just learned about a few months ago from a PBS special and getting an insider view was really enlightening.My only criticism, the book isn't really set up in chronological order so I found myself having to go back a lot to try and remember who people were, how they were related, and when things were happening in time.
But I think it is crucial that people read it because of the truth it contains.
People do not know what happened to Native Americans even within our lifetimes.
People are taught that the mistreatment of Native Americans is a thing of the past, but it is surprising exactly how badly they have been treated even in the past 50 years.
I worry that what happened with the Native Americans is a bit too much like things having to do with Iraq.
I think people should read this book and reflect on that.
The author of this book, Mary Crow Dog, grew up in extreme poverty on the Rosebud Indian Reservation in South Dakota.
She became involved in the early Indian rights incidents, including the take over of the BIA offices in Washington, DC, and the Wounded Knee site in the early 70s.
I remember these incidents and I found it extremely interesting to read about Mary's inside view of what happened.
Mary is married to a medicine man from the Lakota Sioux tribe, who was the spiritual leader at Wounded Knee.
It is an interesting book but, as with much of our American Indian history, depressing and sad.
This is my absolute favorite book, I first read as a teen, read many times since then, every family member I've had read it and they all agreed it was a great depiction of an American Indian (Native American) woman's struggle in the late 1070;s during the height of the AIM movement.
Mary was caught up in the movement, and was at the 2nd Wounded Knee where FBI agents had the Native's surrounded.
I recommend this book to anyone who wants to know how it felt and still feels to be a Native American living in modern times.
Can I give 6 stars??
Minus the flavorful swearwords, that actually I see as vital a lot of times---how else can you express it?, I was so affected.
Any book I ever gave a 5 to has got to step down a bit to give this one of the highest ratings I've given to any other.Maybe it's the recent trip to South Dakota, or the recent read of Crazy Horse and Custer.
Or the 12 1/2% "indian" in me---but this is a story I wish had been required reading...I was only 4 when most of this took place, so how could I know.
But, really, how could we all NOT know?
http://ericstoller.com/blog/2006/03/3...

