https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1106474.The_Death_of_a_President
Indeed, the only reason I desired to read William Manchester’s The Death of a President was a fascinating article in Vanity Fair by Sam Kashner (available at http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/fe...).
Kashner’s article details the controversy behind Manchester’s book: how Manchester was originally asked by the Kennedys to write an intimate portrait of Kennedy’s death; how the Kennedys later tried to suppress the book; how Manchester nearly destroyed himself in his effort; and how the Kennedys took control of the book rights, ensuring that no new editions are published.
In fact, to read Manchester closely is to see his belief that LBJ didn’t do anything except not crash the Kennedy ship.At the same time, Manchester’s book came out in the midst of Bobby Kennedy’s run for president.
After the assasination of her husband Jack Kennedy, rather than allow a maelstrom of books to appear, Jacqueline Kennedy along with Bobby Kennedy designated William Manchester as the "official" author of the story behind Kennedy's death.
Manchester is also the author of "The Making of a President 1960", a book highly admired by Jack Kennedy and therefore a natural choice.
It's very instructive to note that in occasions of great stress, people behave strangely.
Likewise, many others confessed to drinking heavily "trying to get drunk," yet the the alcohol had no effect.In a similar way, the stress on Manchester was great.
It's a long book, and since it only deals with the four days from the start of the Dallas trip on 21st November through to the state funeral on 25th November, the level of detail is exhaustive.
It's not an intrusive or ghoulish book - the author was personally asked by Jackie to write it, and the tone is very respectful.
The last quarter of the book is where it really shines - the description of the preparations for and the passage of the funeral are just heartbreaking.
As it was, there were numerous parts where I had to put the book down and walk away for a while.
In research for my work, I recently needed to obtain copies of the Look magazine issues that originally serialized this book. The articles about JFK's death made for fascinating reading, a true triumph of descriptive journalism. The details were telling and the depth truly astounding. It's this kind of reporting that makes me wistful for the heyday of journalism. Bloggers, schmoggers.
I encourage any person to read this book and if you can separate the emotion from the event you will see that the facts are what they are and they must be accepted; no matter how difficult Oswald was the lone gunman but more importantly there was havoc that followed and this book captures all of the details as they occurred.Edit: I meant to add when I first wrote my review that for all the sadness in this historic and accurate account of the assassination, he manages still to squeeze in only a bit of humor along the way.
While sitting on the store bench I had a Forrest Gump moment as the saleswoman proceeded to tell me that the Texas School Book Depository building from which Oswald shot Kennedy was an easy walk just a few blocks away, thus no bus, no Uber.
The author thrust his full time and energy into the project and close to 50 years following its 1967 release the book remains a powerful chronicle of history.
Manchester revealed in this book that Rose Kennedy retreated outside to this same location when she heard the news of her son’s death.
This is an extremely detailed history of the John F.
Kennedy Assassination.
Manchester is a skilled and thorough historian.
It is packed with details and covers a very short span of time in exhansuting detail.Although I did enjoy it, there are a few places where it is a bit dry---but also several very good and gripping descriptions.
Since this is one of the early histories of the Kennedy assassination, it is a good starting point.Manchester does seem to support the Warren Commission report, but whether you agree with his conclusion or not, there is a wealth of information in this book.
A book that I had to read and had to hunt down on Amazon to obtain.
Published in 1967, William Manchester's 'The Death of a President' is a flawed historical account of November 20 to November 25 1963.
For those readers old enough to recall those searing days, memories will be reignited.
But I read enough to know that this is a great historical record of a tremendous week in American history.
It's thorough, interesting, painful, and sometimes so political and raw that you can't believe it got published at all, especially with Jacqueline's blessing* and only 3 years after JFK's assassination.
It's a gutsy book, it really is, and it also takes a strong stomach to read because my god, his death was brutal, and so was the aftermath.Jacqueline commissioned the book originally but ultimately fought its publication--largely because it hit too close to home in some parts.
This is very believable--but also why it's such a gift to have this record at all.
This is a very long and detailed book describing the weekend of the assassination of John F Kennedy in 1963.
I read an interesting article in a recent Vanity Fair about the publication of the book.
I've read several books by Manchester and admire his writing.
He always notes the telling details and the Kennedy book is chock full of them.
Lots of things those of us watching TV or those who read about the events in the million books about it written in later years would never know.
It is worth the week or so it takes to read it.
Written in 1967 this is the only account of the JFK assassination authorised by the Kennedy family.
It is a fascinating read and a very detailed insight into the days, the hours, the moments of the trip to Dallas, the assassination, the emergency room at Parkland, the return to Washington, the lead up to the President's funeral and the funeral itself.
Jacqueline Kennedy especially stands out for her strength, poise and bravery as she led a country into mourning with class and dignity.
We see how the death of JFK affected not only those close to him but a whole nation and even the whole world.
A must read for any JFK fan.
I knew it would be a painful exercise – much more so than that fateful day for me on my school lunch yard.Manchester manages this tour de force by meticulously documenting not two or three, four, five, ten or twelve but hundreds of personal, emotionally roiling snapshots of real people caught in the vortex of a President’s assassination.
Toward the end of the book, as the nation is bidding farewell to its Commander in Chief, Manchester’s photographic literary lens captures that heart rending moment when Jacqueline & Caroline Kennedy kneel before JFK’s flag draped coffin & kiss the flag gently while murmuring their love - your heart just breaks.
In order to appreciate Death of a President, it must be read with an eye to the context of the time.
It was one of the first books on the assassination, and the first to be written with use of extensive interviews of the First Lady, the Attorney General and countless other witnesses to the Kennedy Presidency, Assassination and the aftermath.
The spat between Yarborough and Connally goes on for many, many pages and even now that I've completed the book, I don't see why such an exhaustive review is necessary to understanding the chronology of the assassination.
As a person who thought he knew all there was to know about the JFK assassination, while reading this book I discovered new and interesting facts that I didn't know or had forgotten.
I don't Like to go into details of the book, I want let the readers discover the events absorb them as there happening and and processing the information for the first time.
As a amateur Presidential Historian with personal knowledge of the events, I want to say this is a must read people interested in the JFK Presidency.

Written in 1967, Manchester's book predates all of the 80s and 90s looney tunes who shoot up a restaurant, school or shopping mall, but his description of JFK assassin Lee Harvey Oswald resonates.
Written decades before "going postal" became a synonym for a nutcase who just starts shooting, Manchester nails the psychology of a killer.
What he says about Oswald is the same thing that is said about every spree killer and wannabee who makes the nightly news.The book is so much more than that.
You understand and empathize with the participants and you start to cry because you know how it is going to end.
Magnificent. There are no other words. This is one of the best books I've ever read. I cried through much of it, which is why it took me so long to read. I could not understand the mood in Dallas at the time. One of the more haunting facts was reading about school children in a wealthy suburb of Dallas cheering when told the President had been assassinated. What kind of people teach their children that kind of hate and intolerance?So many other impressions from the book, I'll have to come back and edit.
Utterly fascinating, and revealing, notwithstanding the Kennedy's gutless retraction of their prior approval, and its ultimate bowdlerization.
However, it's important to remember that the book was written in a different time and in the aftermath of one of the most emotionally difficult times in modern history.
Even after all these years, I know that City's reaction in the aftermath informs my feelings today.I recommend this book to students of history, to those who want to know the emotional impact of the events of November 22-25, 1963, and to anyone who is curious about the world of 1963.
A blow by blow of the behind the scenes leading up to and following the assassination of JFK. The author was granted interviews with all of the participants. Usually books focus on the killing. This one really gets into what the participants on the trip to Dallas were up to. The book got better especially after his assassination. The level of detail was fantastic. Would recommend for JFK buffs.
From the interviews to the documents to the narrative this is the key document that explains the events of the assassination and how the Federal government responded in the days afterwards.
Having work on continuity of operations plans it’s interesting that some of the issues presented in those hours after the assassination are still area that we need to ensure information is exchanged properly between agencies.Overall if you are interested in the events surrounding the assassination and are looking for a neutral narrative this book is mandatory reading to get a full understanding about those four days in November.
I revisited the topic with the book "A Cruel and Shocking Act", fascinated by the process of how the Warren Commission came into being and then proceeded to issue its report.
"Death of a President" is a book i assumed would feel dated, made obsolete by 50 years of hindsight and new information, and picked clean by countless subsequent books that have sourced the central events first reported by Manchester.
I lazily started reading it out of mild curiosity after its reference in "A Cruel and Shocking Act", which revealed how Manchester's writing of the book - at Jackie Kennedy's request - clashed or one-upped the Warren Commission's own investigation.
Manchester was the authorized biographer and as such he was granted incredible early access to the full cast of family, politico and personal friends.
He also had the doggedness to track down, time stamp, cross check and personally attempt to experience every living detail.The amount of reference material (pre-google) that Manchester must have digested is just staggering.
One famous selection suspends time and space and thin slices the exact moment of the President's Death.
At the time of JFK’s death, I was a chubby little one year old and my Dad was thirty.
Amazingly, the morning of the assassination the President and his wife were talking in their hotel room in Fort Worth and JFK mentioned that last night would have been a great night for an assassin to strike.One thing that stood out to me in this book and in other biographies/historical accounts that I've read about US Presidents is the personality traits and qualities that set them apart from regular people.
For example, the morning of the assassination Jackie Kennedy pointed out the beautiful artwork and flowers in their hotel room in Fort Worth.
William Manchester said he was requested by Jacqueline Kennedy to write Death of a President about the days before and after her husband's presidential assassination.
I first became aware of this book by reading an article in Vanity Fair alleging that after it was written the Kennedy family disapproved of it and it only had a first printing.
If you want a minute by minute, you-were-there account of this seminal American event, I can't recommend this book highly enough.
I have to wonder if the book I read had been changed from the original.
This coming as an interruption to our day and so soon after his death was new experience, as was being let out of school early that day.
This was history based on events through which I lived, about which I had spent time reading in the daily papers and weekly news magazines as they happened.
It was the first, but not the last time I would find the history of events that occurred during my life to be even more interesting than they seemed to be at the time I experienced them.
This book is a fascinating, highly detailed account of the hours leading up to JFK's death up until moments after RFK and Jackie leave his grave after his burial.
Manchester is/was one our top historians (Churchill biographer) and Jackie asked him to write this account.
The book is a long one and as mentioned takes place over a short time span (like 24 it is in real time).The best part about this book for me was a toss up between how horrible the event was for those involved and how Manchester made the reader feel that and the chaos and disorder our government can spin off into when it's leader is murdered.
I kept putting it down after reading just a few papers, perhaps subconsciously hoping that this wasn't going to happen if I simply didn't read it.The last portion was just as difficult, having to put the book down repeatedly because of the tears in my eyes.Manchester did an unbelievable job documenting the few days before and after the assassination of President Kennedy.What stands out most to me is the amount and intensity of blatant hatred that existed in Dallas and the south at that time.
Those that spoke out against the hatred in Dallas after the assassination were ostracized or worse.
This was a fascinating read! Published in 1967 it is the definitive account of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. It was written at the request of Jacqueline Kennedy because her late husband was a fan of the historians scholarship. Manchester is a careful historian who conducted numerous interviews with eyewitnesses, secret service agents, and Mrs. Kennedy. Many of the interviews were even done before the Warren Commission conducted theirs. With great detail and masterful storytelling Manchester burdens the hearts of readers with one America's saddest tragedies. Readers will be informed, saddened, and even delighted.
The first 50 pages are a slog to get through. But after that, the next 600 are riveting stuff. It went through, in some cases minute by minute, what happened before, during and after (through the funeral) of the JFK assassination. After interviewing all the key players, Manchester was able to provide tremendous insights into all the drama that happened in Parkland hospital, the whitehouse, and during the funeral plans
