https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25193.The_Silent_Cry
Both left their respectable remote home in the forested valley of Shikoku years before, but return to take part in the sale of their land and ancestral storehouse to a Korean supermarket boss, or emperor as he is viewed.Both brothers get caught up in a rather distressing state of affairs, with locals, themselves more than anything, loved ones, and a past best left in the history books.The story itself is multi-layered, driven forward with anguish and foreboding, but also with a lingering hope and sense of redemption.
For me, I believe Oe's Nobel prize was fully justified for his insight and humanity, and there was enough in the meaning and quality of the writing here that tells me this undoubtedly is rightly viewed as a masterpiece of postwar Japanese fiction, tainted with an irreparably spirited notion of being written in ancestral blood.

( Also on the negative side of the equation, there is plenty here that is kind of wifty-cosmic ala Vonnegut, or deliberately obtuse, grotesque in a way we'd now recognize as the tactic of director David Lynch.) The onslaught of intimidation and dread the narrator feels bounces back and forth from an internalization of events to the formation of a complex analogy of those same, or similar, outside occurrences.
The string of disaster and violence our author observes from day to day becomes a kind of personal 'disgrace loop' for which he blames himself.
A disabled child wasn't just a fiction for this book; the author was father to a similar case.
Closing the back cover on this book, emerging from the 'disgrace loop', feels like walking out of a prison.
***I’ve tried to eliminate the spoilers; but be WARNED -- somewhat spoilery***Early in the novel, the main character, Mitsu, finds himself in the pit where his septic tank will soon go.
These things stick out like warts in the first few pages and highlight the monstrous conditions of modern life.
It seems all too often that modern life offers us up routines and functions in place of meaning.
The book starts with the main character discovering that his friend has committed suicide by painting his face crimson, sticking a cucumber up his anus, and hanging himself.
But I really want to read "Seventeen"!
I also really want to read all of "Seventeen", and that's impossible because the rightists won't let us.
But I've just realised that I don't know whether they are playing association football, which I thought Japan called "sakka" (soccer), or American football.
The Wikipedia article links to American football.
I tried to kick it back", which doesn't sound like an American football does it?
And Taka played American football at University?
And he managed to buy loads of American footballs in Ehime in the 1960s?
Can you even buy an American football in Ehime now?=====It's not John Nathan, it's John Bester!
الرواية الوجودية (كامو وسارتر)...رواية تيار الوعي (فوكنر وجويس)..رواية التوثيق النفسي (لويس فرديناند سيلين)..كل هذا بنكهة يابانية خالصة تنفتح على الإنسان
Silent Cry, by Nobel Prize winner Kenzaburo Oe, takes place in Japan in the late 1960s, following Mitsusaburo, his wife Natsumi and his brother, Takashi as they return to the rural valley community where Mitsu's family has lived for over a century.
Mitsu spurns Takashi for his juvenile behaviour, though Takashi is confident and charismatic, as his brother wants to follow in the footsteps of their great-great-uncle who, in 1860, started a rebellion in the village.A main notion in Silent Cry is that of truth and the consequences of it.
Gravely, Mitsu's entire view of history and his brother comes into question by the end of the novel, and the reader is brought into this upheaval in a very real way.
We are faced with the naked suffering of every character, from all angles, until we become soiled.Though The Silent Cry is disturbing, it communicates its message: Despite the worst humiliations and failures, we can generate the strength to begin again.
The Silent Cry allegorized the shame of Imperial Japan’s defeat into a family that must face an existential horror akin to nuclear annihilation.
That is why this book turns so many people off.Oe delivers a literary blow across the face that leaves us to solemnly reflect on our own personal hell and the will to start again, from nothing if need be.(And now for some funny Japanese existentialism.)
Everything around me—the dark brown stretches of withered grassland where the snow had completely vanished, leaving the soil parched and powerless as yet to put forth new life, even the somber evergreen heights of the forest beyond the groves of great deciduous trees—had an air of indefinable loss, like the dead ruin of a human being, that awoke an obscure uneasiness in me as my gaze roved across the hollow. This is one of those novels where all the characters are miserable and bad things are c
To complicate reading matters, the first third or so of the book moves at a glacial pace, smothering everything in its slow-moving wake.
And so I heaved the yoke back up across my shoulders and trudged on, only to be rewarded with even more suffering and misery, but at least it started arriving faster.The setting is a rural valley in post-WWII Japan where two brothers have returned to their family homestead, one from living abroad in America and the other, the narrator, from his middle-class life as a translator in Tokyo.
The ghosts of dead siblings haunt the two brothers upon their return to the valley.

Nov. 22: Y ahora, a buscar una verdad.Nov. 21 (más tarde): JUEPUTAAAA!!!Nov. 21: ¡AY, MARICA, SE CALENTÓ ESTE PARCHE!Cuando un libro tiene el poder de hacer que uno grite llegada una sección queda poco que hacer aparte de gritar llegada esa sección.
Conforme progreso me doy cuenta de que este puede ser uno de los mejores libros que lea este año.
La introspección que ocurre en este libro tiene tantos niveles de necesaria incomodidad que lo que más engancha en la obra es su honestidad.
Hasta ahora, y siendo la primera vez que leo a Oé en inglés, The Silent Cry tiene que ser uno de sus mejores libros.
رواية تغوص في أعماق النفس الإنسانيةصادمة في سوادويتها وتفاصيلها التي تنطلق من واقعة انتحار غريبة قبل أن يتضح أن محورها هو حياة شقيقين يعودان إلى قريتهما غربي اليابانوهناك تنفتح جروح الماضي والحاضر معاالرواية تحتاج صبراً ودأباً من القارئ، لكنها ممتعة وتفاجئك بتحولات شخصياتها وترسم لك ملامح يابان أخرى لا تعرفها.
Yet the central relationsip in the novel is between Takashi and Mitusaburo, who act as the ying to one another’s yang; Mitsusaburo is cold and aloof, bogged down in intellectual musings, whilst there is something vital about Takashi, whose character is infused with a kind of mad-cap energy and a desire to re-create a conflict which took place between their great-grandfather and his brother, who led a peasant rebellion.
Un libro depresivo y denso. Creo que merece un mejor review. Será para otro día.
Moreover, writing a comment on this complex novel by a formidable Japanese author is demanding and could be controversial, therefore, I would like to share my views with my Goodreads friends on some good points so that we can understand more on why we should read him enjoyably, that is, any one of his works to which we incline.First, reading this novel needs our concentration; it is observed by one of his translators that Oe has famously written his works in short sentences similar to those in foreign novels, presumably in English ones, so they are relatively convenient for translation.
The Korean/Japanese conflict reflects a lot of the frustrating fear-racist thought that we're still dealing with today- which only adds to the frustration that Mitsu has (and looking further, that Kenzaburo Oe being a pacifist has as well) when looking at the seemingly futile effort of the Japanese banding together 'everyone's disgraced themselves equally' to revenge themselves on the 'outsider' -the Koreans (who unwillingly were forced into labour camps and prospered amid their adversity).
The two brothers also deal with their own personal pains- both identifying with relatives they have limited understanding about- and in turn trying to live and act upon those ideals.
Dark book. Told through comparisons to a Japanese uprising 100 years prior, the characters struggle to find meaning and make their way forward in a small village. The influence of existentialism and especially Sartre on the telling of the story is very apparent. Using the theme of connecting to similar people in the past, the search for a life that is worthwhile eludes the characters as much as it eludes us.
هى قصة أخوين يعودان إلى وطنهم الأصلي، وهي قرية في غرب اليابان , يحاول احد الاخوين ميتسو تخطى احزانه بعد انتحار اعز أصدقاءه وولادة ابن متخلف عقليا بينما ،تاكاشي الاخ الاصغر يسعى لتحقيق بطولة وهمية ، من خلال تحريضه الشباب. للقيام بعمليات من النهب و السلب لتاجر كوري يسمى بالإمبراطور فى محاوله منه لإحياء روح الانتفاضة الإقطاعية لعام 1860 هذا بعدما استامنه هذا التاجر على بضاعته و تعهد هو بشرف اسرته ان يحافظ عليها
بالاخره همه یک روزی می میرند و صد سال که بگذرد ، دیگر هیچکس دربارهء این که دیگران که بودند و چطور مردند سوال نمیکند. پس بهتر است همانطور که دلت میخواهد زندگی کنی و همانطور که دوست داری بمیری...
Only then...no wait, one more cup adjustment.
In his ancestral village where the bulk of the story takes place, he moves out of the main residence into the storehouse, a symbol of security.
This points out the problem with the first part of the book: It's too symbol-laden.
It includes all these plot points and characters that aren't interesting until you get to the end and you finally understand what the book is about and the main character takes on dimension.
By then I should feel pity for this character who realizes too late that his brother is the one who will leave his mark on history, but I just felt relief that the book was over.
Στο τέλος του "Μια προσωπική υπόθεση" ο ήρωας βρίσκει την ελπίδα για να συνεχίσει τη ζωή του με τη γυναίκα και το νεογέννητο μωρό τους.
Όε, η ιστορία είναι σαν να ξεκινάει από αυτό το σημείο μόνο που η ελπίδα για ζωή χάνεται από τις πρώτες γραμμές ανάγνωσης.
Τα γεγονότα εξελίσσονται μέσα από μια μεθυσμένη γραφή σα το φτηνό ουίσκι που καταναλώνει ο πρωταγωνιστής.
Η έντση κλιμακώνεται αργά και σταδιακά μέχρι την κορύφωση των γεγονότων όπου οι ανατροπές ακολουθούν η μια την άλλη με πολύ γρήγορους ρυθμούς.
Στο τέλος, η αίσθηση της λύτρωσης είναι πικρή.Αν γινόταν κινηματογραφική ταινία ο Κιμ Κι Ντουκ θα κονταροχτυπιόταν με τον Λαρς Φον Τρίερ.
Kitapta, Meiji Restorasyon Dönemi Anayasa’sının yürürlüğe girmesi üzerine yapılan bir eleştiri ve uyarı ile ‘daha ilerici vatandaşlık hakları elde edilmesi için bir örgüt kurulması konusundaki ısrarı’ dikkatimi çekti.
Bir de “bağışlanan“ diyebileceğimiz vatandaşlık hakları vardır ki bunlar tepedekiler tarafından bir lütuf olarak verilmişlerdir.
Tepedekiler tarafından “bağışlanan“ haklardaysa böyle bir karara yer yoktur; bu haklardan yararlananların bunları anında “kazanılan“ haklara çevirebileceklerini hayal etmeleri anlamsız kaçar.” Sessiz Çığlık, sf:240-241.
-dünya mevcut değil; ne var ki bu sabah bedenime işkence eden zehir öylesine şiddetli ki, yeniden uykuya dalmama izin vermiyor.” Sessiz Çığlık, sf:5.
قبل از اينكه كتاب رو شروع كنم راجبه نويسنده خوندم كه از موراكامى واسه قاطى كردن فضاى داستانش با محيط هاى خارجى ِ غير ژاپن و غرب زده بودنش بشدت انتقاد كرده بود و خب خيلى اين حرفش جالب نيومد به نظرم ، اما مشكل اينجا بود كه ٧٠ صفحه از كتابشو بدون هيچ كششى خوندم !
گفتم حتمن مشكل از منه ، گذاشتمش كنار واسه چند روز و كتاب ديگه مو تموم كردم و باز برگشتم سر اين ، به ده صفحه هم نرسيد ديدم نميتونم ادامه بدم .
داداش عيب هاى خودت رو بنگر از اين به بعد ..
¿qué se puede esperar de un libro que inicia con un suicida ahorcado y con un pepino en el ano y que termina con un espíritu caminante del valle? No lo sé. He disfrutado este libro por montones y no he dejado de maravillarme y asquearme durante todo el trayecto. Gran libro
Debo contar que a pesar de que la novela es muy buena, he sentido un alivio de terminarla porque es una historia muy perturbadora, de esas historias que en Occidente sería totalmente inverosímil pero que siendo japonesa, por la cultura y los problemas mentales de los protagonistas se vuelve creíble.
La historia está contada desde el punto de vista de Mitsu, el hermano mayor de una familia que algún día tuvo cierto abolengo en el Japón profundo, quien es traductor y académico, está pasando por una profunda depresión (que dura prácticamente toda la novela) a causa del suicidio (por causas desconocidas) de su mejor amigo y la enfermedad de su hijo que también es la causa de la depresión y alcoholismo de su mujer.
A book of big, intricate ideas and strange style.
Both the narration and the characters endlessly explain the meaning of every minute occurrence, all in the same morbid, unnaturally technical tone.
Such an explicit and technical-sounding style is sometimes frustrating, but it's also compelling in its idiosyncrasy.
And it suits the state of the narrator, who is variously detached from and repulsed and vaguely baffled by existence.
The characters in general feel themselves flung into existence, into themselves and what they are culpable for, and they grapple with it.
Peasants, forest, revolution! Supermarket! Complementary brotherpairs, whiskey, ruffians, storehouse, ritualized violence!Seemed diffuse and evocative. Wish I knew more about 1970s Japanese peasantry. Interesting parallels to fiction re: Chinese Cultural Revolution.Trauma, shame, guilt, guilt, guilt.Overwhelmingly sad. But in an abstract sense.
The story was so awesome. But, please prepare for the tiredness reading the first few pages of Indonesian version.The tiredness didn't come from the story, but from the crowd of letters in a single-space format and type of papers used.But I can guarantee that the book is worthed to read due to the awesomeness of Oe's storytelling.
He merged Japanesely with other writers like Yukio Mishima, Natsume Sōseki, and Shūsaku Endō, whose names I would sometimes spot on the shelves at the local used book shop, and mostly ignore.The Silent Cry (1967) feels like serious writing, Nobel writing, dense with meaning, although at the same time being very readable.
Mitsu's younger brother Takashi returns from America, where he was studying at Columbia, to Japan.
The suicide and the retarded baby surface again and again in Mitsu's thoughts throughout the novel.
We learn from Mitsu about his family's tragedy-strewn past: a sister, also retarded, committed suicide; an older brother was beaten to death by the local Korean community (who had been brought to Japan as slave labor).
The story is filled with plenty of psychological tension in under three hundred pages.Like all his novels, it is about family, the protagonists being two brothers, who return to their hometown from Tokyo after many years of absence.
There is a stream of conflict, which builds quietly, but when the brothers are confronted with some hidden truths upon selling their family home, it turns their lives upside down.
This leads to more conflict, through a subsequent series of stark revelations and a betrayal.Oe sets up the entire story so methodically that we can not help but admire his skill.
