https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/467754.What_They_Don_t_Teach_You_at_Harvard_Business_School
I suspect the reason this book became a best seller was primarily because of the impact, influence and the position of power Mark McCormack had on the Sporting / Celebrity Endorsed World - at that time.
So coming back to Mark McCormack Book - The title is pretty amazing.
I felt Mark McCormack's main purpose of this book was nothing but to advertise his ego, brag about his achievements, keep advertising those big names under the pretext of preaching a worthwhile gem of wisdom.
At least I did, when I bought this book almost 20 years ago, as a dreamy-eyed teenager harbouring aspirations of being part of an IVY League Business School.
Found it in the bottom of my unread shelf few days back, and decided to give it a go.Few pages into it, I realized when Mr. McCormack wrote this book, he didn't intend to have me - a cynic, possibly entering into mid-life crisis, as a reader.Naturally, they don't teach all these in Harvard Business School, cause these are pretty commonsense stuff that you learn from life.
Filled with anecdotes and not many concrete strategies, "What They Don't Teach You" is an interesting collection of advice from a guy who's "been there." This book seems like something you might want to keep on your shelf and open up once in a while when you get stuck or need some good ideas.
Pretty disappointing in both content and form. It is basic common sense stuff...which they don't teach in HBS, probably because you are supposed to know this stuff early or intuitively.
The book is about management strategies from the Marck which he had learnt during his career of working for various clients, starting his own firm and growing it.
The tone of the book is prescriptive throughout and it makes you feel that someone is constantly teaching you the do's and dont's of business.
The examples are from Mark's real life, who runs a firm dealing with sports marketing and stuff.
But how many of us are in such kind of firms.
Frankly, I couldn't relate to any of the examples provided in the book.
The book is a nice quick read, but very prescriptive, .
الكتاب لا يتعدى أن يكون إضاءات في عالم الأعمال .. يشمل الإدارة والعلاقة مع الموظفين والدخول في عالم الأعمال .. وبسبب قدم الكتاب فسوف تشعر بأن بعض النقاط التي يتحدث عنها تحتاج إلى تطوير أو أصبحت لا يعتمد عليها .. وكذلك هي عبارة عن نقاط من تجربة شخصية .. حينها سوف تدرس كل منها وتقيس مدى تطبيقها من حالتك.يجب أن يحتوي على منهجيات كي يكون أكثر عملية من نقاط سردية.
One guy's takeaway from working in business. I liked his tips about negotiating and basically creating connections (e.g. by giving small favours). The writing style is also great. It's a good introduction into white collar life (navigating the business world).
I would warmly recommend this book to anyone aiming to lead people and in general to anyone working in office environment.
Selling is what they don't teach you at Harvard Business School. ;-) Of course the book is loaded with useful facts from a real-world businessman. Street smarts will love this one from the late Mark McCormack.
Read many years ago when tarnsitioning from the Navy to civilian life. Very insightful. Should be required reading for all college graduates.
الفصل الاول ..
فن البيع 5/5 الفصل الثانى ..
التفاوض 5/5الفصل الثالث ..
الادارة 2/5الفصل الرابع ..
الفوز فى السباق 2/5الفصل الخامس ..
حسن التنظيم 1/5الفصل السادس ..
الاتصال 0/5الفصل السابع ..
كيف تنجز مهامك اثناء الطريق 0/5الفصل الثامن ..
Read it based upon dated hype; that was a mistake. Got more out of the Epilogue than the rest of the book.
Similar to Ray Dalio's Work Principle. Hard hitting baby boomer. Great insight into head honcho's perspective.
Some good tips, some bad tips, but in any case, the storytelling is awful. If this was written well, I'd probably remember ten different ideas out of this book for a few years as I'm a lover of a small amount of arrogance in writing, but now I'm stuck with one. Let's see how long it stays.
The central idea of the book is that things not taught at Harvard essentially can't be taught in a classroom but can only be learnt from real life experiences.The book is an easy to read set of guidelines/daily practices to follow in order to increase your own productivity.
McCormack gives a lot of great examples from his own life which make this a very interesting read.
The one part I couldn't quite follow, however, is where he discusses the negotiation of Gary Player's contract with Slazenger.
Some parts of the book might seem abrupt, but it is filled with some great advice overall.
60% = 3 StarsThe biggest problem I have with this book is that I read it within the last 6 months and can't remember much about it, or even a feeling of excitement. I know it was okay, but not as fantastic as the title led me to think that it would be. Decent book, don't spend your last on it.
The very first business book I ever read, my grandma bought it for me from the Cole's bookstore in Lethbridge when I was in grade 10. Not a very good book, but I have fond memories of starting my long path of learning.
This book was recommended to me by someone earning about 4x my salary so I thought I had better read it and take it seriously.I made 144 kindle highlights in the books so that shows there was a lot of information that I found useful.The author also works in a very interesting industry representing sports stars, some sports governing bodies and some companies that want to use celebrities to enhance their image or sales.These stories helped keep the book interesting.Once thing to note is that the authors business started when he represented Arnold Palmer, a man he went to college with and the author was also a golf pro for a brief time.
The book is about management strategies from the Marck which he had learnt during his career of working for various clients, starting his own firm and growing it.
The tone of the book is prescriptive throughout and it makes you feel that someone is constantly teaching you the do's and dont's of business.If you have spent a couple of years in the industry already, you would already know most of the gyan.
Frankly, I couldn't relate to any of the examples provided in the book.
The book is a nice quick read, but very prescriptive, .
The book is very comprehensive and surely keeps it's promise of informing you of things "they don't teach you at Harvard"Yet, the book does get very repetitive and boring after a point and certainly becomes a drag unless you aren't in Business school or working in management.I'd definitely suggest reading the first half of the book that outlines the general principles you could start implementing right now.I guess I'll just have to circle back to my bookmarks here someday.-Tanmay J.
This book is not only useful for MBA candidates but also for professionals who have long been in the business for a couple of years but they should read this with a beginner's mindset. As the author states in the last pages of his book, you shouldn't fall into the trap of liking the book because you may find yourself doing exactly what McCormack is doing. Being almost 10 years in the corporate world now, I wish I have read this before I graduated.Strongly recommended.
This is surely a must-read for every entrepreneur. Throughout the book the author has shared practical business tips about different aspects of business world. I really liked the way author has elaborated his recommendations using real life scenarios from his personal experience as a businessman.Would like to warn future readers to strictly not read this in one go; rather go through a ‘read-practice-repeat’ pattern. 5 STARS !!!
The title is excellent marketing. But the book is simply an amalgamation of common sense and advice often repeated in articles from Forbes or Business Insider. I do, however, like the anecdotes and examples from the author on how he tackled situations and issues. It gives us laymen a glimpse on how top executives and entrepreneurs do it at the big leagues. The question is, how can we confirm the validity of these anecdotes?
Immensely dated (originally published mid-80s, but most references are to sports stars famous in the 60s/70s), and mostly stating the obvious, there's still some useful/interesting stuff in here, so it's still worth skimming through.But McCormack doesn't half come across as an unpleasant, manipulative arsehole who thinks everyone else is an idiot (while considering himself a paragon of genius and virtue). I guess that's what he thinks it takes to succeed in business...
I was putting off reading this book for quite a long time but when I picked it up I was very presently surprised. it's an amazing book with a lot of knowledge. I read that some complain that it's common sense, sure, a lot of it is, LIKE EVERY SINGLE BOOK, e.g. purple cow is a whole book about common sense no new info however this book offers a lot new which will teach mamy business people.
This was a useful book however due to it being written in the 80's means it has not caught up with business in a technology age. Additionally, the book gender stereotypes in that all business people were referred to as men and women were only mentioned as secondary. It would benefit from changing the pronouns!
I read this while away on holiday, and have re-read it once since, amazing read. The real fundamentals and overthought business situations, as a young man getting started in business, this book helped a lot. The practicality of the lessons reminded me a lot of ‘how to win friends and influence people’ by dale Carnegie, which of course is a huge compliment.
1. Hãy học cách sử dụng nỗi sợ hãi, chứ đừng để nó sử dụng bạn2. Thông thường, ta sẽ cảm thấy thoải mái khi có người chia sẻ trách nhiệm với mình. Tuy nhiên, bất cứ sự làm ăn chung nào cũng mang lại nhiều vấn đề hơn mức chúng ta nghĩ3. Làm việc cho chính mình là cách tốt nhất để có được sự trả công xứng đáng với giá trị của mình. Phải biết cách sử dụng thời gian của chính mình
It was interesting. Nothing I would say is a must read to know how to run a business or how to manage people. He gives some ideas but mostly about their business and how he has run it. Is an older book.
Clever book! Small tips that you can use to improve the quality of your work and personal life. You might think that some of them can be found in other books, yes this is true - but take into account when this book was written.
