https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71014.Selected_Tales
Aunque no todos los relatos conservan esa frescura que se les supone en el momento de su publicación, Poe ha sido siempre un autor de referencia en mi biblioteca. Y de vez en cuando, repesco alguna de sus narraciones. No en vano fue una de mis primeras lecturas serias, cuando apenas contaba con unos 10 años. Eso te deja una huella permanente.
escalofriantes cuentos escritos en primera persona, me parece que tienen el mismo patrón de desenlace y que involucra en el clímax la locura, para hacer al lector preguntarse si lo que se relata es real, ficticio, artificio o imaginado por el narrador, en ocasiones se traslucen signos sugerentes de manía, depresivos tipo bipolar y ataques de pánico, no en balde se conoce ahora que Edgar Allan Poe sufría un trastorno afectivo
Crime, Horror, and a Bit of Black Comedy7 December 2018 Well, what can I really say about this book other than that it is a collection of short stories by Edgar Allen Poe. Well, I could probably leave it at that, particularly since I have already written reviews on some of the stories in this book, just not all of them. However, I won’t be using this to review the other stories in this collection, but rather saying a few things about Poe’s writing. One thing I should mention though is that this
Sure, since Poe literally invented the detective genre, of course there is going to be an influence on Doyle, but I do wonder to what extent he influenced other writers, particularly Kafka.
The thing is that many of Poe’s works seem to be more weird and wonderful as opposed to simply a collection of horror stories.
In a way it is actually quite hard to fully explore, say, a Clive Cussler novel, because these types of books tend to be written for entertainment as opposed to being literary masterpieces.
In a way a lot of countries seem to attempt to discover their identity through literature.
الكلام دة فكرني اني قرأت من فتره ان لوحة بيلا تار المفضلة كانت دي: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Landsca...في الحقيقة اللوحة جميلة ويُمكن ربطها برده بالمشهدين اللي ذكرتهم قبل كده ويُكن ربطها برده بطريقة سر بو المُميزة ؛ في اللوحة اكبر مساحة بياخدها فلاح ومحراثه ، وآخر صياد ومركب في الافق ومدينة تبدو مسالمة وايكاروس المسكين ما بيظهرش منه غير رجليه وهو بيحاول النجاة من الغرق ..
Oh, look, I can review this book from my computer.
The ins and outs of this problem deeply, deeply confuse me...Anyway, to actually review the book: the Penguin edition of selected tales of Edgar Allan Poe is an interesting one.
His writing is interesting, reasonably absorbing most of the time, and it was quite good to read the forerunners of modern detective fiction in the form of 'The Murders in the Rue Morgue', and 'The Mystery of Marie Roget', though both of them got a little tiresome by the end because of the overload of detail.
Poe, for me, combines what I don’t like about the short story, with what irritates me about tales of the supernatural, and with what absolutely drives me nuts about gratuitous horror or violence in fiction.
Those who pen gratuitous horror seem to think that if they employ our vomit reflex frequently enough, we won’t notice the writing is actually pretty poor.
I fully acknowledge Poe’s contribution to literature, but I think others, before and since, have told the spooky story better than he did.
Other writers have taken elements of the paranormal and woven them, more subtly and cleverly, into fully-formed, three-dimensional tales.
"Me ha gustado mucho volver a leer relatos de Edgnar, me ha recordado en mi época de instituto, las historias y los relatos me han encantado, aunque no todas han conseguido conquistarme, ya que muchas no me engancharon, siento que hay relatos mucho mejores de este autor, pero me ha encantado descubrir muchas de esas historias que no conocía. Un libro que recomendaría si sois amantes de Poe y de la época gótica, ya sea por la preciosa edición o por sus historias... os conquistará por completo. "Reseña completa: https://obsesionporlalectura.blogspot...
Una preciosa y terrorífica edición ilustrada por Meritxell Ribas, de los mejores cuentos de Edgar Allan Poe.Reseña completa en THE BEST READ YET BLOG
The real genesis of this could probably be attributed to Rabelais, whose obscene epic probably does much more than, say, the relatively terse Masque of the Red Death, but Poe brought that Renaissance setting to his audience in a light that the Renaissance author himself could not manage.
Poe brought forth a sense of inevitable doom like no other, contrary to his blithely optimistic peers, Emerson going so far to deride him as "the jingle man", a light-hearted name from a guy who tried to dig up his dead wife to take her back in his house to a racist opium fiend who married his thirteen year-old cousin.
If Hawthorne is the light of that era, then Melville is its gray judge, and Poe its impenetrable shadow.
Edgar Allan Poe is the undisputable master of horror/terror/gothic genre. He goes to unsurpassable lenghts of describing the human psyche, of what a man is capable to do to another person. In addition, he knows how to create a gloomy atmosphere that suits his tales!! The only thing I disliked was his verbosity, his pseudo-sophistry and his language, which was sometimes really trying and exasperating. I thorougly enjoyed this volume, with the exception of the last two tales, namely "The Domain of Arnheim" (a treatise on landscaping??????) and "Von Kemplen and his Discovery" (a discovery of the philosophical stone).
To inspire one frightful genre may be regarded as a misfortune; to inspire two looks like malevolence.

This took TOO. LONG. What to say? There were stories I loved, there were stories I liked and there were stories I thought 'what on Earth was THAT?' As, I guess, with any collection. Still, most of the stories I really liked and, well, it IS a classic.A warning though, especially for those whose native language isn't English - the language can be quit difficult no matter how much or how long you've already been reading in English. Still, once you get used to it, it's quite fun discovering new (old) words and seeing how rich a language can be.
I really enjoyed "Selected Tales" by Edgar Allan Poe. All the stories were unique and interesting. None of the stories seem to be the same. The writing was really good and had good descriptions. I think one of the things Edgar Allan Poe did the best was fluency and thoughts. The thoughts he incorporated into most of the short stories were very expressive and long. Being that the stories were written in another time period, some concepts are hard to understand. But apart from that, I liked reading "Selected Tales" by Edgar Allan Poe.
not interesting at all! style is dense, always mysterious to that flow over events by narrating, narration in turn isn't tractable. Too classic, dumb characters, doesn't feel the easiness of mysterious tales, but too overworking to be accessed. The life of characters isn't spotted at the exact timing of dialogues. Didn't enjoy it!
While I previously thought Poe only did randomly rhyming poems in story form, this was a pleasant read. Granted the 'horror' wasn't exactly horrifying, but that was part of Poe's charm. I particularly enjoyed the length to which Poe went to describe things, like the scenery and the characters, leading to an altogether interesting narrative.
I found these stories very dark and sometimes very depression, some of the stories highlight are fear of death and also shows a beauty within it, but like everything that pass we have decay that follows.
As a big fan of Sherlock Holmes, I enjoyed the detective stories here by Poe that predate the detective genre of Holmes and Watson. This is a great book to read around Halloween time and in contrast to the more graphic violence in movies today, the book keeps it pretty tame, while still maintaining the suspense and intrigue going well.
Finally got to finish this book! Some of the stories were so complicated and full of many minute details and some were really gloomy and creepy to me. Other than this I can say that Poe's stories clearly were ahead of his time. My favorite ones were The Black Cat, Hop-Frog, and The pit and the pendulum.
This is another thing that marks these stories as products of a different literary landscape, the "true art is realistic" mentality that would until recently ghettoize fantastic fiction as "low culture" is in large part a side-effect of the Industrial Revolution.Yet, at the same time, there is another antiquarian aspect of Poe's writing that separates him from both the signature style of Lovecraft and that of Borges: There is a certain sort of rhythmic texture to his prose, its metre and the way sentences are formulated then put together almost feeling music-like in the resulting reading rhythm.
Although this is my second time reading him in English, before I had only read shortened versions for students, so I'm glad I could experience the whole extent not only of his work, but also of his style.Of course, I have liked some stories more than others: -The Assignation had an air of mystery and elegance which I really enjoyed (the fact that it was set in Italy helped :P).-Ligeia was simply breathtakingly beautiful.

As expected, this was a great collection of stories.
My personal favorite has to be 'The Pit and the Pendulum', which is by far the scariest story of the bunch.
Other ones I loved: 'The Man of the Crowd', 'The Murders in the Rue Morgue' (despite the rather silly denouement), 'The Masque of the Red Death', 'The Tell-Tale Heart', 'The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether' and 'Hop-Frog'.
The only story I genuinely didn't like because I had no idea what it was doing there, was 'The Domain of Arnheim'.
As far as I can tell, it's about some garden or other.
I really wanted to enjoy these stories - be chilled by them - but I just didn't. I even found myself questioning why the Spanish Inquisition (The Pit & the Pendulum) would want someone to die out of the public gaze, rather than at an Auto da Fe.Apologies to all Poe fans...
Dentro de la colección de historias cortas o cuentos, se incluye "El Cuervo", sin duda el poema más famoso del escritor, que si bien en su versión en inglés la métrica y el ritmo están bien empleados, por su contenido, incluso en español mantiene una atmósfera bien lograda.Catalogado como uno de los primeros autores de ficción detectivesca o policiaca, varios de sus relatos caen dentro de ésta categoría, teniendo algunos de ellos como protagonista a Dupin, una versión francesa del posterior Sherlock Holmes de Conan Doyle.
En resumen:Esta priera toma de contacto con el autor me ha gustado mucho por el descubrimiento de su pluma y estilo, sin embargo, no todas las historias han conseguido engancharme y hacerme partícipe de los crimenes y misterios por resolver. Sin duda, un libro indispensable para los lectores asiduos de Poe por su preciosa edición y una auténtica delicia para los amantes de las descripciones elaboradas y el ritmo poético.Nota: 3/5Lee la reseña completa aquí: https://utopiainthemoonlight.blogspot...
Poe’s short stories are very likable to me.
I like the Gothic element in his description.
I like that he tends to lean towards the dark side of nature & the human mind.
(In a good way).
His subjects are too quite interesting.
I think death & the loss of loved ones are very important subjects to be tackled in literature, and Poe seems to tackle them very often.
In his own dark, grim, yet appealing way.
Amongst the stories that I really enjoyed are: the Tell-Tale Heart, the Black Cat, William Wilson, the Fall of the House of Usher, and Eleonora.
Poe's ghostly, strange, and mystery tales were groundbreaking at the time, and inspired a whole genre of novels and tales to come. His tales of terror and death will always be perfect for a ghostly night of reading
Despite Poe’s verbose and sometimes convoluted style, his gothic stories are enjoyable to read.
Sinister stories of murder, death, other worldly and supernatural. Some utterly enjoyable, some bizarre, some truly entertaining, and yet for some one cannot wait for the end to come soon enough.
