https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122555.The_Fabulous_Clipjoint
The Fabulous Clipjoint is my first novel, and I gave it five stars because I'm a sucker for old-school private eye yarns like this one is.
Mr. Brown won the 1948 Edgar for Best First Novel in what went on to become a series, I'm told by other reader (I know the late Ed Hoch told me he was a big Fredric Brown fan).
I wouldn't call The Fabulous Clipjoint hardboiled, more like medium-boiled.
If I ever find more time to read, I'd move on in the series and find out just what the heck happens to Ed and Uncle Am.
An under-read pulp writer from the 1940s, this is a classic noir mystery set in Chicago, the first of a series featuring young Ed Hunter and his uncle Ambrose, a carnie.
Ed's father is killed in an alley on the way home from a regular night out bar hopping.
The detective seems unmotivated so these two set out to solve the mystery of his death.
Brown does a good done, keeping the reader guessing who killed Ed's father and why.
Recommended for readers who enjoyed Ed McBain's 87th Street Precinct series.Sadly, I am not sure where I am going to find the rest of this series...
By the time Fredric Brown wrote this, his first full novel, he had already been a prolific contributor to the pulp mags of the 1930s & 40s, turning in works across multiple genres from Sci-fi to Noir.
Brown has a unique approach to writing noir that surely shouldn't work.
Brown's playfullness with the narrative comes to the fore in the scenes where Ed does a spot of roleplay, playing a sharp-suited gun killer with an imaginary gun as they try to bluff info out of suspects.

The Fabulous Clipjoint is the Catcher In The Rye of mystery novels - or at least, it is for me.While I read it, I'm living the life of Ed Hunter, a bright but bitter 18-year-old living in the Chicago slums of the 1940s.
If you're interested, Brown set a number of short mystery stories in carnivals too.When Ed and Am Hunter team up to find out who murdered Ed's father, it doesn't feel anything like the traditional mystery novel.
Very, very good. At first this reminded me of the Moon in the Gutter by David Goodis (in that one it is the beloved sister who is dead in the alley, here it's the father), but it became more plotty and interesting (I loved Uncle Ambrose talking about how everything is just atoms spinning around so, you know, reality isn't as real as you think). A satisfying book. (Just to clarify, this came out in 1947, the Goodis is from five years later).
A nice noirish detective novel--not as good as some other things I've read by him, but OK. Best when Ed acts like a real confused eighteen year-old and not when he turns into Mr. Smooth With the Dames. Am is a great character, and there's some wonderfully-detailed glances at seedy Chicago. The mystery is not much, but it's full of odd, interesting bits (Ed and Am sit around the bar and talk about women's handbags???).
I really enjoy Fredric Brown. I don't think he's a very good writer, tbh, but he has a great imagination and all kinds of energy and a singular voice-- he's never pretending-- which is always emotionally invested. I just read his books and smile. Good stuff.
It’s importance is that it was the first appearance of the nephew/uncle detective team of Ed and Ambrose (Am) Hunter, a key volume in providing a context for all the books that came after.Ed Hunter tells the story of “The Fabulous Clipjoint,” how his father, Wally, was murdered in a dark Chicago alley, an event devastating to Ed for many reasons, but which to his step-mother and step-sister was merely the end of a meal ticket.
The father/husband/stepfather gets murdered & the family members have their various reactions wch seem real enuf.
He asked, "You think you might want to run one?" ""I think maybe," my uncle said.
"Like when Hoagy, the big man, had been talking to my uncle about the blow being sloughed.
It doesn't." "I asked, "How about the name Reynolds?" ""Who is this?" ""I'd like to explain," I said.
Brown also wrote science fiction & I like the way his respect for the genre keeps popping up in his crime fiction: "The top floor was a very swanky ocktail bar.
S. Lewis reading so I grabbed something from my go-to escapist genre: mystery/crime from the 1920’s-50’s.There was nothing fancy about this book; no snappy dialogue like Hammett or Chandler and no steadily building dread like Goodis or Woolrich.
There is also the added interest of this being something of a “coming of age tale” for Ed. I was a little disappointed that the carnie angle didn’t play into the story as much as I’d hoped, but I guess you can only fit so much into 168 pages.
Overall: exactly the kind of escapist read I was hoping for.
I recently read the classic mystery, winner of the Edgar award for best first novel, The Fabulous Clipjoint by Fredric Brown.
The writing is superb.
The characterization is strong.
The plotting is beautiful.
(Brown was an experienced short story writer when he wrote his first novel.
It's not the work of a beginner.) Readers who like language will learn both old carny jargon and mid-twentieth-century slang.The plot is full of twists.
Readers will guess some of them.
I'm reasonably sure they won't guess all of them.The Fabulous Clipjoint is among the top ten percent of novels I have read.
a little thin on plot. but this is a perfect boy book and its sense of place and authorial stance is pitch perfect.
When Ed Hunter is 18 his father is murdered so he goes to his Uncle Am, a carny, for help.
As Am tells Ed, "We're Hunters," playing on the double entendre with full meaning, and they set off to track down the killer.
This is a rich story about coming of age, looking below the surface for people you thought you knew well, and learning to walk those mean streets while maintaining integrity.
In short it is about where a hard boiled detective gets his formational training.There were seven Ed and Am mysteries and I look forward to tracking the remaining six down for future enjoyment.
A trip to Gary from the Loop takes less than an hour on the Gary Express, then walk a block to get a street car that let's you off a block-and-a-half from your destination.
An 18-year-old has no need to think of college and takes a job as an apprentice printer at the shop where his father works.
He'll become a journeyman printer, a good job that will allow him to find work anywhere and someday open his own shop if he puts a little aside from his paycheck each week for a few years.
“The Fabulous Clipjoint” (1947), by Frederic Brown, is a coming-of-age story about Ed Hunter, whose father is murdered in a Chicago alley.
Along the way, Ed learns much about the father he never truly knew–that he was not the weak, pathetic man he thought he was.I found this book as a freebie epub somewhere on the internet and read it on my ColorNook.
Frederic Brown won the 1947 Edgar Award for “Best First Mystery Novel” with this book, having already published hundreds of stories in pulp magazines.This was a very good book, and since it was free, I consider it a great find.
I understand that there are six more books featuring Ed and Ambrose.
"A thing can look beautiful or romantic or inspiring only if the beauty or the romance or the inspriration is inside you." Much of the charm of this classic noir murder is that the hero is just 18. Just when I said this book just needs a femme fatale, Michelle Pfeiffer walks in! And it's about as torrid, I suppose, as 1948 would allow.
Very enjoyable! They don't write them that way any more.Despite the fact that there were some real "bad guys" in the book, what I think I liked best was the warmth and naturalness of the characters, characteristics that are all too rare in today's thrillers.It was also fun to step back into 1950!
Wally Hunter, also a printer, was found dead in a Chicago alley after a night of drinking.
Besides Ed, Wally left a wife, Ed's stepmother, and the wife's fourteen year old daughter.
This is a fine mystery novel, but it is also a fine coming-of-age story.
"Bunny Wilson," a co-worker of Ed and Wally, was a nickname for the writer (and noted disparager of mystery stories) Edmund Wilson.
It was the first of seven novels and two short stories featuring Ed and Am Hunter.
There are some great hard-boiled type lines like, “They were nice arms for a sleeveless dress, and she was wearing a sleeveless dress,” or “She came back looking like a million bucks in crisp new currency.” Lines that make me think of Humphrey Bogart.The book is also a father-son story and a rite of passage story.
Although filled with regrets, they are never dwelled on, as Ed plows forward in life and learning.The story is well-developed, consistent, and clever.
I am looking forward to reading the other books in this series.

Young Ed Hunter's dad is murdered in a back alley in the mean streets of 1940's Chicago.
The police aren't willing to spend much resources investigating the murder, so Ed teams up with his carney uncle Ambrose to find the killer.
Pretty good mystery although I thought the ultimate solution to the mystery was fairly improbable, but then again one could say that about a lot of mystery novels.
A good story with an interesting look at 40's Chicago, although I wished there was more to Uncle Ambrose's carney angle.
Good stuff - I'd read this once before on Keating's recommendation, but it held up really well on reread (I did remember who did it all, more or less, about half way through, but that's no big deal). Well and fairly clued, I would say.Very noir-ish, but with a sort of quirky humor that is very much Brown's sort of thing. I wonder how good the sequels are; half the charm (indeed half the plot) is really more Ed's coming-of-age story than it is the mystery.Recommended.
I'm not sure Brown could be less than entertaining if he had tried. This is the first in a series, the only one of the series I've read. Not great -- I prefer THE SCREAMING MIMI, HIS NAME IS DEATH and THE NIGHT OF THE JABBERWOCK -- but an enjoyable hard-boiled mystery from the late 1940s.
Fredric Brown's first novel as well as his first "Ed and Am" story. A preview of what his subsequent novels would be like. A jewel for Brown readers ... an acquired taste, possibly, for mystery readers not familiar with him or his work.
Great underappreciated writer and book. Looking forward to reading the series now.
Very good pulp novel. Holds together well, no loose ends. Guilty party pretty obvious but not the motive. Writing is weak. Enjoyable quick read. Will read another in series.
so i'm thinking, after glancing at a review or two, reading something about the edgar...i'm thinkin i got a deal here.story begins:in my dream i was reaching right through the glass of the window of the hockshop.
anyway, they're in the hotel room and they play some make-believe, say a few lines...use their imaginations...which is what the time passages are all about, the manner and method differing in the stories i've noted time passages...and this take is still yet another one...elmore leonard has a pile of them...and i liked how this one operated.
Rich in period detail, but glum and misanthropic and not much of a mystery.
A very decent detective story, and something like a coming of age story. A pretty all around entertaining novel, really, even if I don't usually care for youth themed novels. Another one of these pulp novels that used to be freely available on blackmask.com, and other places.
