https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46430.Journey_Into_Fear
In this novel set in the months before World War II, Eric Ambler uses his typical hero—a novice inadevertently caught up in the world of international intrigue—to explore the reality of fear: how it affects perceptions, alters attitudes, and undermines the will, and yet how--if embraced and acknowledged--it may lead an ordinary man to perform an extraordinary action.Our ordinary man is Howard Graham, an English engineer from a British firm who has been assigned to a munitions project for the Turkish government.
Or will Graham learn to use that fear and save himself from assassination?
All ratings relative to the genre, of course.3.5 stars.Ambler wrote a series of novels from 1936-1940, then stopped for 12 years, returning to fiction in 1952.
This is the last of the early works.
Though these early works are considered "Classics", I found this book a shade immature in its technique, compared (at least) to Passage of Arms, which is truly brilliant.
The lead character, Graham, is foolish (in a very British way), and so not wholly believable.
And the finale compensates for any flaws leading up to it.
An excellent book for Ambler fans, but not necessarily the best starter book.
Graham is a nice, quiet, intelligent armaments engineer from northern England who has just finished a long business trip advising the Turkish navy.
It's just at the start of World War II, and the Germans do not want Graham to bring the classified armaments information that he has memorized back to his English employer.
Graham's fear intensifies as he is put in a no-win situation where his survival hangs by a thread.One of the passengers on the boat is a leftist Frenchman who thought that wars were created by international bankers and armaments manufacturers who would profit from the conflicts.
Nicely atmospheric thriller. The novel takes place in the months leading up to the second world war. A mild mannered engineer becomes caught up in a situation beyond his control. Really enjoyed the setting of this novel from the seedy bar/cabaret in Istanbul to the claustrophobic steamer. The story motored along at a fast pace and the male characters were well presented. Haven't read the author before, well worth a look at for this genre.
In short order, I found a few passages that capture some of the reasons why I enjoy reading Eric Ambler.From page 7 (in the mass-market edition that I have):Over dinner at the Pera Palace Hotel, Kopeikin gave war news.
It was half-past ten when Kopeikin announced that it was time for them leave for Le Jockey Cabaret.And from page 46:"A shock, Mr. Graham?
But it is one thing to be a soldier in the trenches: the enemy is not trying to kill you in particular because you are Mr. Graham: the man next to you will do as well: it is all impersonal.
He is one of the experts in the area, and makes plans to return to his job helping the Turks – one of England’s Allies at the beginning of WW II – improve their weaponry.
On his way back to England, he is targeted by a group of Axis operatives who plan to eliminate him so that the Turks cannot improve their offensive position.
It was at this part of the novel that I was reminded of the classic film starring Peter Sellers as Inspector Clouseau in “A Shot in the Dark.” Think back and try and remember the classic scene in the hotel, where all the characters were in and out of each others’ rooms.
Classic WWII espionage novel. A civilian engineer working on a pivotal project for the Turkish navy is singled out for assasination by Nazi spies. Can he survive the trip back to England? The writing is more Le Carre than James Bond: more talking than action. A quick read.
From BBC Radio 4:Unassuming engineer Mr Graham runs for his life across war-torn Europe. Classic 1940s thriller read by Richard Greenwood.I also read the printed version of this book by my rating didn't change.
This was my first Eric Ambler book. While at times it felt a little wordy, and the main female character was especially 'easy', she comes off as a horny idiot, the plot itself and the suspense is all very well done. After this, I'd give any Eric Ambler novel a chance.
The story of this book is set in 1940, in the early days of the Second World War. The protagonist is Graham, a British ballistics engineer on the way home from Turkey where he’s been doing important and secret work regarding the preparedness of the Turkish navy.
And at least he's not James bloody Bond.It also makes interesting reading as a cultural document of an intriguing point in history: WWII has clearly begun, and there’s a great deal made of it in the book, but at the time it was written the author could still suggest the protagonist stopping off for a romantic jolly in Paris on the way home.
It's Eric Ambler. That's all you need to know.
I’ve read Eric Ambler twice before, and was entertained both times.
In this case, armaments manufacturing engineer Mr Graham – in Istanbul circa 1940 to help consult the Turkish military on naval guns – is shocked to discover someone is trying to kill him.
The Turkish secret police – who need him alive to compete his work – try to get him back to England safely via a steamer ship, but Graham soon discovers that he is anything but safe as some of his fellow passengers may not be who they seem to be.
Of the Ambler novels I’ve read so far, this is the best of the bunch.
Always an enjoyable read. I just always want to delay when I finish.Ambler is fairly successful, at least in this case, with holding the suspense.I just wish GR would quit opening new books for me.
An interesting look at early spy novels, the new guy who isn't a spy gets put in the seat of one when he discovers what was a robbery attempt was actually a murder attempt.
Fun!
All our library system seemed to have was one of those four-in-one volumes of Mr. Ambler's work, of which the first was Journey Into Fear.
Having just finished that, I'm glad there are three more (well, really only two, because ACfD is also in this volume and, although I liked it a lot, I'm not ready to read it again.) It's well known I like thirties and WW II espionage stories, and Mr. Ambler does them so well.
In this case, a clueless English engineer, Graham, working for an armaments company in Turkey in 1939 attracts the attention of some German agents who don't want him to get back to England.
I had never read an Ambler story.
After an early attempt on his life, he is forced to take a passenger freighter to Genoa from whence he will travel back to England.
There are many interesting passengers on the same ship, some of whom are not what they seem.
The plot unfolds quickly and has numerous twists and turns some of which are truly surprising.
The characters are fully drawn but the plot has a few too many "coincidences" to be really believable.
Nevertheless, it was still a satisfying read.I will try another one or two Ambler efforts before giving up on him.
I have not read a novel this quickly in a long time.
I was filled with elation when encountering some fine writing that could draw a visual scene in less than a sentence.
Most authors struggle to set a scene in pages.
Graham's suspenseful journey had me guessing the whole way, and while there a few rather typical cliff-hangers at the end of chapters, there were others I did not see coming that took me by surprise.
The climax is rather pedestrian considering today's large-scale, over-the-top, complicated, big endings.
This is my first Eric Ambler novel, and I will be reading more.
Graham, a British engineer who specializes in munitions, becomes the target of German spies as he travels from Turkey to England in the months preceding WWII. He takes passage on a small boat, where many of his fellow passengers will reveal surprises about themselves and he will encounter both friends and foes in unexpected places.Eric Ambler's prose is efficient and graceful as he moves his plot along smoothly. His characters are delineated well, their interactions are well-focused, and the twists and turns in the plot are satisfying.
Part of A Treasury of Great Mysteries Had to check the background of this story. Did not realize that this was a fairly significant classic spy story. A story happening just before France falls (WW II). And a movie with Joseph Cotton and Orson Welles.... which I now have to see. This started off well and then I began to lose interest and was confused. That's when I decided to "google" the story. Then all made sense and I finished reading. This was good and had me at the edge of my seat at the end!
Orson Welles filmed this, although I'm surprised Hitchcock didn't acquire the rights; it's already got all the required elements - man caught up in events beyond his control, mysterious blonde, a confined space, a cast of shifty foreigners whom the protagonist must choose to trust, or not. It's very much like one of Graham Greene's entertainments in its scope and tone; indeed, I imagine he read it before creating the scenes onboard the ship in The Comedians.
Ambler certainly has a fine writing style, which is why I read over a quarter of a book whose characters did not interest me and that offered very little story in the first 50 pages. I think I understand why Ambler has his fans, but now that I have given up on two books by him I cannot say that I am one of them.
Cracking story, well told with extremely believable characters. I loved it.
One of my favorites. Great movie too.
An easy-for-me-to-follow spy novel that moves along at a good clip; quite enjoyable!
Of this latter type, the general idea was that the hero and other men were attracted to her and that was perfectly reasonable and fine, despite them being mostly married, but she was to be simultaneously prized and despised.
Reading this dispiriting story, I wondered if that was where John Le Carre and others got their blueprint from.
Only as it happens, I think Fleming, as well as being a far better writer than either Ambler or Le Carre, also created far more intelligent and nuanced women in his writing.
An Englishman man called Graham had a highly paid job with a big armaments manufacturing concern; something to do with guns.
An engineer, he traveled abroad a good deal on business.
When he learned, three weeks after the signing of of the Anglo-Turkish treaty of alliance, that he was to go to Turkey on company business, he was a bit troubled that it would take six grueling weeks.
Arriving back in Istanbul, Graham discovered that his only way back home was by an Italian freighter with fifteen passengers.
I have long wanted to read Eric Ambler, as I knew he was a major influence on John Le Carré (who I love).
I started with Journey into Fear (much to my dismay, I only realized afterward that A Coffin for Dimitrios comes before this one) and immediately loved it.
The characters are well drawn and Ambler is fantastic at depicting the paranoia that our “everyman” hero experiences in trying to figure out which of them might be after him.
I’m very much looking forward to reading A Coffin for Dimitrios.
Journey Into Fear is all that I could ask for from novel in this genre.
The action is expertly plotted to keep you turning the page, each of the twelve chapters ending with a surprise that keeps you reading.
The setting, a cargo ship on a journey from Istanbul to Genoa, is the perfect backdrop for the drama of a remarkable cast of characters--the Romanian assassin, the German spy, the aging French couple, the Turkish tobacco seller, the Serbian dancer and her Spanish partner.
Published in 1940, the novel is a firsthand look at the complicated politics of Europe at war.
These questions kept me reading to the last page late into the night.
Over the years, I've read about five of Eric Ambler's novels.
While not my favourite, I quite liked Journey Into Fear, and found it to be a fast enough read with a proper dose of atmosphere, plot twists and intrigue to make it very recognizably an Ambler thriller.
While the characters and their places are fairly stock, it can be argued that this is largely because Ambler is the one who made the template from which other thriller writers have been inspired ever since.
