https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17235026-the-girl-with-all-the-gifts
“And then like Pandora, opening the great big box of the world and not being afraid, not even caring whether what’s inside is good or bad. Because it’s both. Everything is always both. But you have to open it to find that out.” I have to say that I'm not much of a traditional zombie fan - moaning, slow-walking dead people are neither interesting nor scary to me - but there is nothing traditional about this book.Firstly, this is not an old school "how to get away from the zombies and stay alive"
And, through the teacher's stories and inspiration (with particular reference to the story of Pandora), it is also about Melanie's quest for love and acceptance, as well as an understanding of who she is.The zombie science felt new and interesting, despite my aversion to most technical language, and all the principal characters are well-developed with their own history, motivations and aspirations.
The author even takes time to develop a deeper understanding of those characters we will never come to like.If you are looking for horror and traditional zombies, The Girl with All the Gifts might not be the book for you.
(And as a teacher, I’ve seen some pretty strange classrooms.) After the zombie apocalypse in England, some infected children have, for reasons unknown, been turned into zombies but have also retained their human intelligence.
Along with her classmates, who are all strapped in their chairs to keep them from, you know, eating the human teacher, they go through lessons and read stories, so the scientists can try to understand what makes these bright young zombies tick.
The book does a great (terrifying) job describing the sort of fungal infection that could plausibly mutate into a zombie-type disease.
Like zombies?
Creepy, eerie, & unexpected! I enjoyed this one!
The last book I read (which was very good) took me 16 weeks to get through.This one arrived yesterday morning.
My wife got her hands on it first and finished it by the evening.
I took over and have finished it 8pm on the next day (today).
The opening is the strongest I've read in an age.It's the first book I've bought in a long time.
Publishers and authors send me free books in the hope I'll read them and say something nice, so I've a stack of books waiting that I didn't pay for.
She’s wheeled into a classroom in which there are other kids strapped into chairs just like hers, where a woman teaches them lessons that they will probably never need to learn.This book is like a fantastic combination ofthe scrupulously researched medical thriller aspects of Mira Grant's Deadline + the queer, feral curiosity of a child who's not what she seems, like Octavia Butler's Fledgling +the wandering survival aspects of The Reapers are the Angels and its badass heroine Temple +the dichtomy of high-functioning/degenerate beings in Warm Bodiesthe poignant, impossible need in Let the Right One In.But with a fascinating pathogen, distinctly drawn characters, and unexpected (and AWESOME) ending of its own.
Full review posted at The Midnight Garden.
and now for some secrets, for those of you who have read the book:(view spoiler)[BECAUSE OH MY GOD, HOW AWESOME WAS THAT??
but it's not all hippie shit - she still has these wonderful feral attributes, which combination of qualities i am a sucker for:my GIRL!when i was barreling towards the ending of this, i was crossing my mental fingers for a sequel, but when that ending hit, i completely changed my mind, because i think it finished with a perfect emphatic period that would only be diminished by a return to the story.all told, a great addition to zombie lit, and i am so glad i squeezed it into my giant wobbling "must read this very minute" stack.come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Ugh. This book has what might be the greatest first act I've ever read.
It's absolutely brilliant though, and tells a story of a tragically fascinating girl and her relationship with her teacher and the world around her.
I did manage to finish the book, which I suppose is saying something in favor of its quality, but I'm not sure I can recommend it.
All manner of fascinating questions and story threads are introduced or implied and then abandoned in favor of more action scenes.
I will never forget that absolutely wonderful first act, but I can't deny how disappointed I was by the rest of it.
The most sure-footed novel I've read all year. A dystopian thriller with a real, beating heart. Recommend. Recommend. Recommend.
I'm glad that every detail about the book kept what's inside hidden away for the reader to discover alone - Pandora's box, if you will.
This theme existed throughout the story arcs of each of the characters of The Girl With All the Gifts, from young 10-year old Melanie, to the teacher Miss Helen Justineau, Sergeant Parks, Dr Caldwell, and Private Kieran Gallagher.
Melanie's ability to experience feelings and emotions allows a bond to form between her and her teacher Miss Justineau.
To be honest, although it’s quite intriguing, I wouldn’t go as far as to say that it’s a never-before-seen type of story, since the idea of facilities has been done a hundred times before and it’s not as if the zombies here have magical abilities.But so help me, I couldn’t put it down.
I loved the idea of a ten-year-old zombie-girl being the main character in this adult book.
She is so, so, so, believe it or not, humane.It’s a survival story, without a question, but not the usual fully action-packed type.
Don’t wait two years to read this.
A little different than what I was expecting but still great!
Although Melanie is content enough with the world that she knows, she is concerned when two children from her class suddenly disappear; taken by the aggressive Sergeant Parks to Dr Caroline Caldwell’s lab, never to return.Although this begins as an interesting dystopian novel, it soon descends into a fairly basic zombie story and, once I fell in with the plot, my heart began to sink.
A group of characters, including the doctor, the teacher Miss Justineau, Sergeant Parks and a young private Kieran Gallagher, plus Melanie, find themselves on the run in a hostile environment.
What really spoiled the book for me was the incredibly stupid ending.So Melanie makes her choice to infect the whole world with the fungus that turned the first generation into zombies and the second one into flesh-eating zombies who retained their human consciousness.
They need to get with the programme super quick to breed kitties and puppies or else they are going to starve to death as they don't eat each other and there are no humans left (except Miss Justineau, the teacher).2.
*3.5/5*
Rating: 3.5 stars
And here's where the story takes a bit of a twist: If you do not want to know anything else about this book then beware some mild spoilers ahead under the spoiler tag (view spoiler)[These aren't ordinary children; they're infected with the zombie virus but have not fully succumbed to it.
She's precocious and extremely intelligent but she does not know she's a zombie despite her rigidly controlled life in a cell surrounded by soldiers who keep her muzzled and their guns pointed at her head.
(hide spoiler)]Like a lot of my favorite zombie stories, this one soon slides into the 'group in peril' scenario.
My drinking buddy Mitchell, Kelly Goldblum and The Book pusher Ed I had this review all planned out in my head.
I didn't even realize it was a zombie book-and don't get me wrong I likes some zombies but I've kinda taken a break from them-cuz everybody and their daddy is writing people eater books.Anyways: You have this group of kids that are being "taught school" on a army base.
The book reads on the young side except there is some gross shit that happens.
Everything is always both.But you have to open it to find that out.I don't see how this was a nominee for best horror book though.
Certainly one of the most unique, most original books I have read and I won’t do it injustice by spoiling it for other readers or giving away any hint as to what this book is about.
I should really stop now or else I’ll be breaking my promise in the previous paragraph.The writing is completely enthralling and thought provoking, the plot very gripping and highly philosophical and the characters deliberately well selected and fleshed out.
I was just probably rooting for a more civilized way of wrapping it up but with the plot, the overall tone and structure of the story, who am I kidding?
It's not an immediate favourite, but I loved it to pieces.I don't like zombies.
But I do like my fair share of thrill, mystery and intrigue.
I just had to get hold of this book.It's a very character driven novel, exploring feelings and testing relationships.
I felt it was just right.As I already said, the characters really made this book.
Especially how they treated Melanie, and the fact that she was a threat, but simultaneously a chance for their survival.The ending (view spoiler)[was great.
But the fascination won in the end.Find more of my books on Instagram
Melanie notices that Miss Justineau is different from other teachers.
Melanie especially loves the Greek Mythology stories that Miss Justineau reads the class.
She learns that Pandora is the expressed to mean "The Girl With All The Gifts"....( as to open the box and release evil in the world) Melanie, and other children around her age, wait in their caged-imprisoned room, until the Military guards come and strap them to a wheelchair and take them to class.
Melanie has the same parasite as the other children --- but just as there seems to be something a little different about her favorite teacher, Miss Justineau, she, too, is different.
The Girl with All the Gifts, M.R. CareyThe Girl with All the Gifts is a science-fiction novel by M.R. Carey, published in June 2014 by Orbit Books, based on his 2013 Edgar Award nominated short story Iphigenia In Aulis and written concurrently with the screenplay for the 2016 film. It deals with a dystopian future in which most of humanity is wiped out by a fungal infection.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی ام ماه ژانویه سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: دختری با تمام موهبتها؛ نویسنده: مایک کری؛ مترجم: بهنام حاجی
هر روز صبح، ملانی در سلولش منتظر می‌ماند تا بیایند و او را به کلاس ببرند.
وقتی به دنبال او می‌آیند، گروهبان پارکس، تفنگش را به سمت ملانی نشانه می‌رود، و دو نفر دیگر از آدم‌هایش او را به صندلی چرخ‌دار می‌بندند.
فکر می‌کند که آن‌ها از او خوش‌شان نمی‌آید.
به شوخی می‌گوید: گاز نمی‌گیرد ولی آن‌ها نمی‌خندند.
ملانی عاشق کلاس درس است.
عاشق یاد گرفتن، درباره‌ ی هجی کلمات، حساب‌ و کتاب، دنیای بیرون کلاس درس، و سلول بچه‌ هاست.
به معلم محبوبش درباره‌ ی کارهایی می‌گوید که وقتی بزرگ شود، انجام خواهد داد.
ملانی نمی‌داند چرا این حرف‌ها خانم جاستینا را غمگین می‌کند...؛ ا.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Then like Pandora, opening the great big box of the world and not being afraid, not even caring whether what’s inside is good or bad. Because it’s both. Everything is always both. But you have to open it to find that out.” Melanie has been a prisoner for a long time. All of her days are the same. Guards come to her cell, strap her securely into a chair and wheel her down the hall . . . . to a classroom? Obviously Melanie isn’t your a
“Then like Pandora, opening the great big box of the world and not being afraid, not even caring whether what’s inside is good or bad.
“Ruh roh, Shaggy, someone’s gonna hurt me if I don’t like this one.”My rating wavered at either a 2 or a 4 throughout the entire book.
9 times out of 10 some d-bag will pop up crying foul that “science doesn’t work that way.” Sometimes it’s best to just gloss over things and stop with all the talky-talky.
However, EVERYONE liked this book so if you’ve been thinking about it, you should definitely give it a go.
REVIEW TO COME TODAY. Melanie sometimes says, "I won't bite." she says it as a joke, but Sergeant's people never laugh. this book tells us about a 10 year old kid named Melanie. She is very smart little girl and she lives in an army base. She has a favorite teacher, her name is Miss Justineau, Helen Justineau and she always loves whichever day Miss Justineau teaches. but one day, something happens to this army base. Hungries are inside the army base and they start eating people and there are bad
Hungries are inside the army base and they start eating people and there are bad guys too so all the survivors in this attack are forced to flee from the army base and now they all have to survive to reach their destination place.
like when she watches movie and I have watched it ( she doesn't read books but she loves watching movies ) maybe I'll spoil her so she knows exactly how I felt when she spoiled me the ending of this book.
In this case, avoiding the synopsis was this book's saving grace because I'm not sure I would have picked it up if I hadn't.
I just wanted to know more about each one of them, and I loved watching them interact in the context of a zombie apocalypse.
Sometimes these characters were so frighteningly real that I felt compelled think "What if this were me?" Carey's writing style, ugh.
Whatever it was, it definitely worked for this novel.Also I just want to quickly mention that I LOVED THE ENDING!
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI have had this book for quite sometime and just now getting it finished!
:) These poor kids are brought in during the week to their class all strapped down in chairs.
They have one really sweet teacher named Miss Justineau, she is so good with these kids.
One of the children, Melanie, loves her so much and Miss Justineau is very fond of her too.
Melanie, Miss Justineau, Dr. Caldwell, Sergeant Parks and Private Gallagher get out and end up together, unfortunately, not all of them make it.
BTW, the zombies in the book are called the hungries, I thought that was great.
The Girl with All The Gifts is everything I look for in a zombie book – tight, energetic pacing with all the savagery, suspense and tension – but it’s also so much more.
Melanie is definitely a special little girl, and she’s part of what makes this book such an exceptional, atypical zombie novel and such a joy for me to read.Even though I can probably go on for another couple pages about why I loved this book, I really don’t want to give too much away.
I think I just found my new favorite zombie book. Melanie is a very special girl. Dr Caldwell calls her "our little genius."Every morning, Melanie waits in her cell to be collected for class. When they come for her, Sergeant Parks keeps his gun pointing at her while two of his people strap her into the wheelchair. She thinks they don't like her. She jokes that she won't bite, but they don't laugh.Melanie loves school. She loves learning about spelling and sums and the world outside the classroom
I thought each POV sounded different, that each character was fleshed out perfectly.Unlike the movie (where Melanie is dark-skinned), the girl in the book is extremely white and blonde.
And she ended up loving Melanie anyway.And I also liked Miss Justineau's interactions with Dr. Caroline Caldwell, a ruthless scientist set on finding a vaccine for the Ophiocordyceps unilateralis fungal infection.Each time Helen put Caroline in her place I was cheering for her because I thought of the doctor as a bully or a mad scientist who had no problem cutting up kids and making other people do it, too.
and to herself.I'm working hard here to avoid spoilers as most of the enjoyment of The Girl With All the Gifts comes from the fact that M.R. Carey plays his cards close to the vest during the first fourth of the novel.
Still, despite my strong bias against it, I enjoyed The Girl With All the Gifts immensely.Part of the reason as to why I was able to lose myself in a book I'm hardwired to hate is that, despite there being some of the obvious genre tropes, there are plenty of inventive twists.
شما تصور کنید من تو دوره امتحانام اینو خوندم و این در حالیه که برای امتحان فردا هیچی نخوندم. یه جورایی عذابوجدان دارم. ولی این کتاب یه چنان غلیانی انداخته به جونم که فک کنم بتونم تا صبح بیدار بمونم و نگران امتحانم نباشم. دختری با تمام موهبتها، تو ژانری نبود که من بپسندم. ولی بخاطر لحن و فضاسازی و کنایه و تلمیحهای دلنشینش، خیلی تونستم باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم. پایان خیلی عمیقی هم داشت، اگه امتحان نداشتم میتونستم بشینم بعدش گریه کنم. ولی حقیقتاً وقت این لوسبازیا رو ندارم. :همر: + پُز بدم یکم؟ :-" ب
شما تصور کنید من تو دوره امتحانام اینو خوندم و این در حالیه که برای امتحان فردا هیچی نخوندم.
یه جورایی عذاب‌وجدان دارم.
ولی این کتاب یه چنان غلیانی انداخته به جونم که فک کنم بتونم تا صبح بیدار بمونم و نگران امتحانم نباشم.
دختری با تمام موهبت‌ها، تو ژانری نبود که من بپسندم.
ولی بخاطر لحن و فضاسازی و کنایه و تلمیح‌های دلنشینش، خیلی تونستم باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم.
پایان خیلی عمیقی هم داشت، اگه امتحان نداشتم می‌تونستم بشینم بعدش گریه کنم.
ولی حقیقتاً وقت این لوس‌بازیا رو ندارم.
:همر: + پُز بدم یکم؟ :-" با مترجمِ این کتاب همین دیروز بیرون بودم.
Melanie is particularly fond of Miss Justineau, a teacher who exposes them to wonderful ideas: Greek stories and mythology, playing a flute, the kings and queens of England, and even the population of all the British cities (allowing her to figure probable population density, but she has the feeling her figures need to be updated).
The Girl with All the Gifts is one of those rare genre entries that will satisfy most readers regardless of their feelings about(view spoiler)[ zombie books.
