https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16982.Marvels
Marvelous reading!!! This TPB edition collects “Marvels” #0-4, plus commentary section by the involved people even an introduction by Stan Lee, also an artwork section.Creative Team:Writer: Kurt BusiekIllustrator: Alex Ross A TIME(LY) WHEN MARVEL YET TO PROPERLY BORN Maybe you have seen material mentioning the 75 years of Marvel, and technically that’s true, but it’s a fact that the company was called “Timely Comics”, and while it’s the same company, it’s obvious that in the 40’s, they were sti
After the first chapter of the story dedicated to the “Timely years”, the other three chapters are focused in what known properly as the “Marvel years” where Stan Lee began his excelsior era basically creating the foundations of what is Marvel, with The Fantastic Four, The Avengers, The X-Men, Spider-Man (with all the support characters on each title), but also the creations of other talented people that contributed to the success of Marvel like Luke Cage between other ones.Phil Sheldon is our leading tour guide, where you’ll have a front seat (but still in the observer area) in the major events of the rising of Marvel Comics, starting (in the first chapter) with the battle of Namor vs.
I think Busiek should send Alex Ross a fruit basket or something every week considering this is the book that moved Busiek on to bigger and better things.Don't get me wrong, I like Phil Sheldon's odyssey through the Marvel universe from an everyman's point of view.
One thing that always bugged me about the Marvel Universe is how the mutants are continuously feared and/or shat upon but the regular superheroes are idolized for the most part.
Phil’s work as a photojournalist puts him in the middle of almost every big event Marvel did during the Silver Age, and he frequently finds himself conflicted about how he feels about them.This does a great job of exploring that idea of how the public responds to larger than life characters and events that make them feel scared and insignificant, and one of the things I’ve always liked about Marvel’s comics is how they've always portrayed the public's attitudes towards the superheroes as being full of contradictions.
I like Brubaker's and Steve Epting's earthier noir approach versus the glossier, more dramatic work of Busier and Ross.
And Sheldon does the meta-fictional thing of publishing a book of photographs of superheroes called Marvels.
There are Ross pages with dramatic swooping inspiring superhero feats alternating with the corresponding intimacy of the awe and worries of the Common Man. Over all, I would say with Brubaker's volume they are indispensable comics works, and I am glad I have finally read them.
While Watchmen and Batman: The Dark Knight Returns may be the greatest acclaimed graphic novels, I believe that alongside Batman: Noel this novel has the greatest artwork style.The story is essentially a trip through Marvel comic history, beginning with the WW2 based heroes and moving forward to the space-age/cosmic heroes.
In such a way though Marvels is a beautiful romp through a world imbued with super-heroics it is also a tribute to our own history and a reminder through the eyes of the everyman of how we as people adapt to the changing times.In short this is a poignant book full of superheroes and also with a deeper look into how the ordinary individual must survive in a world where men and women can tear down buildings with ease.
It took me a bit to warm up to this one but by the end I had come around. Obviously great art and a very good story. I know they shared the artist but I felt like this had a Marvel's version of Kingdom Come feel (though I know this came first so maybe Kingdom Come was DC's version of this).
A very bland book story-wise that is only saved by Alex Ross and his beautiful painted artwork.
It's basically a condensed history of the Marvel universe shown from the perspective of the regular people.
If anything, it makes it even more obvious how arbitrarily and illogically hate is distributed among the superheroes in the Marvel universe.
People hate the X-Men because...
That Alex Ross art, though...
This is the book's main strength, and if it was just that — a retelling of Marvel universe history illustrated exclusively by large format Alex Ross paintings, it would have been infinitely better.
Kurt Busiek and Alex Ross’ Marvels is their love letter to the superheroes of the Golden Age and Silver Age of Marvel Comics.
But it is Alex Ross’ art that would be the true reason this work stands out.
Every detail is in there, rendered by a key eye who certainly knows his comics.
Some of its panels are even recreated from key moments in Marvel comics.It is a joy to read, or even just to scan the beautiful art.
I've read Marvels more times than I can possibly count. Thousands of other people have written glowing reviews so much better than I ever could. Let me just say that I love this book, I always have. The experience of reading it is always magical for me, completely enthralling. And the art, that makes it all feel so real while I'm reading it... This goes very high on my list of all-time favorite comics.
Süper kahramanların gerçek olduğu bir dünyada sıradan bir insan olmanın nasıl olacağını hiç düşündünüz mü?
Tüm o patlamalar, yıkılan binalar sizin yaşadığınız şehrin göbeğinde olsaydı?Marvels, yani Mucizeler işte süper kahramanlar dünyasına bu şekilde yaklaşıyor.
Bir süper kahraman çizgi romanı olsa da, olayı kahramanların gözünden değil, sıradan bir haber fotoğrafçısının gözünden anlatıyor.“Mucizeler”, çizgi romanımızın ana karakteri olan fotoğrafçı Phil Sheldon‘ın süper kahramanlara verdiği isim.
Zaten “süper” kavramına uzak olan insanlar, Human Torch ve Namor hakkında ne düşüneceklerini bilemiyorlar.
J. Jameson ve Ben Urich gibi pek çok yan ve “normal” karakteri de görüyoruz hikaye boyunca.Bir de Mutantlar ortaya çıkınca, işler içinden çıkılmaz bir hal alıyor.
Η αλήθεια είναι ότι έχω διαβάσει ελάχιστα έως καθόλου κόμικς της Μάρβελ και ό,τι ξέρω για το σύμπαν της είναι από τις διάφορες ταινίες.
Όμως αυτό το γεγονός δεν με εμπόδισε από το να απολαύσω αυτό το εξαιρετικό έργο τέχνης, που αποτελεί ένα κόσμημα για κάθε λάτρη των υπερηρωικών κόμικς.Η ιστορία είναι πραγματικά πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα και ιδιαίτερα καλογραμμένη.
Βλέπουμε πως η ύπαρξη αλλά και η δράση των υπερηρώων επηρεάζει την ζωή των ανθρώπων, που δεν μπορούν να κάνουν και πολλά πράγματα απέναντι τους.
Είναι σίγουρα από τα καλύτερα και πιο χορταστικά κόμικς που έχω διαβάσει, ανεξαρτήτου είδους.
There's a lot of action considering it only happens if Phil Sheldon is there snapping photographs, like a story of negatives, what isn't there.
There's even meta fiction here, as Phil Sheldon writes a book called Marvels that is essentially this book.
My only criticism is the back and forth soap opera of the Marvels, as each character is at some point either fighting the Nazis for America or trying to destroy America, with little or no justification.
But then again, that could be satire for the space opera nature of comic book events, how without provocation characters morally flip flop to suit that particular week's plotting.
A good read!
So we have witnessed the birth of The Marvel Cinematic universe, from iron man 1 to Ant-man and still more to come, but what if these weren't movies, what if they were real, what if we really had super heroes protecting us?
That what this book is, the birth of the marvel universe from the perspective of ordinary citizens!
The book also has ordinary people witness famous Marvel stories as they happen, such as The Avengers, Galactus, The Death of Gwen Stacy, all in all its a good story!
But overall this a great read!
Σε τέσσερα τεύχη, το δίδυμο αναλύει την συμπεριφορά των ανθρώπων προς οτιδήποτε διαφορετικό και καταλήγει στο ότι, τελικά, οι άνθρωποι δεν ξέρουν τι θέλουν και τι πιστεύουν.
Οι υπερήρωες για αυτούς είναι απλά σωτήρες χρήσιμοι μόνο σε ώρα ανάγκης, ενώ τον υπόλοιπο καιρό δεν είναι τίποτα περισσότερο από υλικό για εφήμερο κουτσομπολιό, εγκληματίες και επικίνδυνοι για τον κόσμο, με τα Μ.Μ.Ε.
Η συμπεριφορά αυτή φτάνει στο ζενίθ της στο τελευταίο τεύχος, στο οποίο οι πολίτες είναι τόσο σίγουροι -και πεπεισμένοι από τα μέσα- για το ότι ο Spider-Man είναι εγκληματίας που αρχίζουν τις ψευδείς καταθέσεις εναντίον του.
This was my first read of the origins of the Human Torch and I'm totally digging it."The golden age of miracles would begin, and in the years to come, the world would know the presence of the unnatural and extraordinary as part of reality"""Marvels" is a book completely from the perspective of New Yorkers who had been mute spectators ever since Avengers and X-Men, whom they collectively call Marvels, were building and breaking stuffs.
This series does an excellent job at building substantial background to a great many such events, New Yorkers' encounters with the Marvels and their always changing opinions of them..."The Eel, he was just a man in a suit, dangerous, sure.
I do admire all the research that went into this one, the referencing of classic Marvel stories and moments, the art, but...At the end of the book, I was left with a pretty 'oh that's all?' feeling.
The art of Alex Ross is always something to behold, but here, I think it took away from things.
I mean, do you really want to connect with a guy who's willing to walk away from his family (3 women no less) in the middle of a crisis because 'there's a story and photos to get'??
Wauw, probably the best take on the Marvel heroes I've read so far ... from a completely different perspective, that's what makes it special .. and then the characterbuilding, that's what makes it amazing .. And then to top it off with such an amazing artwork .. Well, I must say: this was a stunning piece of artwork !
Busiek’s writing does a smart job at contrasting the existence of the Marvels with real-life politics, as best established in the second issue that introduces the X-Men and the mutant race in the mid-sixties, which leads to riots and manhunts based on racism and paranoia.As great an artist Alex Ross has always been, you can only hire him for certain projects and in the case of books like Marvels and later Kingdom Come, he shows how brilliant he is with his realistic, human depictions of classic comic book characters.
I love, love, love the combination of Busiek and Ross.
I had never bothered with this book before because I'm not usually a Marvel girl, and because I thought that it sounded like it covered the same territory as the excellent Astro City Vol. 1: Life in the Big City, just with known characters.
It looks at the Marvel characters and the Marvel universe through the lens of one photographer/observer, whose opinions change very realistically over time.
The combination of Ross's art with Busiek's intelligent takes on superheroes is always a potent combination.
Ahora entiendo el por qué de la fama de este tomo.Me siento afortunada de tener este volumen tan maravilloso que cuenta con prólogos de Stan Lee y John Romita, pero después de esta lectura definitivamente me he transformado en una completa fan del trabajo de Alex Ross y Kurt Busiek.Malvels nos relata la historia de Phil Sheldon, un fotógrafo que trabaja para el periódico.
Casi como estar viendo una película.Marvels nos muestra el otro lado del mundo de los súper héroes (o maravillas), nos muestra cómo lo vivieron las personas, cómo los veían.El final me dejó con ganas de más, pero admito que es un excelente cierre a la historia.
Still, because of my youthful obsession, I am have more nostalgia for Marvel Comics than most.In other words, Marvels was tailor made for me.Written by Kurt Busiek and illustrated by Alex Ross, Marvels looks back at the events of the Marvel Universe through the eyes of an average man, specifically photographer Phil Sheldon.
It helps that Kurt Busiek has an amazing knack for telling deeply personal stories against a four-color superhero backdrop, a talent he would later perfect in his Astro City series.Alex Ross' hyper-realistic art style is also perfect for this story.
It tells the birth of an amazing universe through the eyes of a normal person, a cameraman journalist named Phil Sheldon.You'd be surprised on how realistic and grounded the story is under a world where superhumans and mutants exist.
Bits and pieces of them are carefully scattered throughout the book, both on and off panels.
Some can be seen longer than the others, like the Fantastic 4 but all of them do get an enough amount of screen time to be appreciated by readers.Marvels is a one of a kind story that has beautiful art (thanks Alex Ross!) and a heart of every normal person.
A very different view of the world of supers. Marvel takes the common man's view of what the world looks like and how it changes with the arrival of superheroes. Great storyline and exceptional art. Very recommended
Re-reading for the Excelsior podcast.This book really holds up! I hadn't read it in over twenty years, but I still love it so much.
[2017]Por el momento sólo diré que las ilustraciones y la época son demasiado perfect0s en este cómic.
Ímpar homenagem às golden, silver e bronze ages dos comics, escrita por gente com vasto conhecimento do cânone Marvel, materializada na superior e belíssima arte de Alex Ross.
En noin yleisesti ottaen perusta juurikaan supersankarisarjakuvista, mutta Kurt Busiekin käsikirjoittama ja Alex Rossin upeasti kuvittama "Marvels" (Egmont, 2001) on yksi säännön vahvistavista poikkeuksista.
Se ilmestyi alun perin nelinumeroisena minisarjana vuonna 1994.
Kyseessä on siis eräänlainen läpileikkaus Marvel-universumin historiaan aina vuoden 1939 ensimmäisistä seikkailuista 1970-luvulle saakka.Sarjakuvassa pohditaan kuinka supersankarien - tai ihmeiden, kuten heitä albumissa nimitetään - olemassaolo näyttäytyy tavallisen tallaajan arkipäivässä.
Sankarit herättävät kaikessa ylivertaisuudessaan niin ihailua kuin pelkoa, suoranaista vihaakin.Lukija saanee enemmän irti albumista, mikäli hän hieman tuntee Marvel-universumin historiaa, mutta ihan hyvin tämmöinen maallikkokin mukana roikkui, vaikka ei ihan jokaista viittausta tunnistanutkaan.
These stories are re-tellings of historic Marvel events told through the eyes of the average person, specifically a free-lance photographer Phil Sheldon.The events and timeline are well-researched and the grace with which they are stringed together is seamless.
The result is an emotional story with genuine gravitas and impact.
Then you add in Alex Ross' amazing artwork and the end product elevates the entire medium.
This collection is also full of bonuses from Stan Lee, Alex Ross, and others.
These bonuses give the reader further insight, a deeper understanding and a more profound appreciation of the book.
Busiek takes a look at the superhero world of Marvel.The detailed art reflects the story well.
He weaves together stories over decades to show how the world felt to an ordinary human character, a news photographer.
He saw the first, with the Submariner and the original Human Torch, and Captain America.
He spends a lot of time pondering humans' reactions to them.
Once he berates some complainers for their ingratitude, and another time, he catches Jonah off guard and hears him admit that he can't measure up to Spiderman.It doesn't quite resolve his story as well as I would like, but it's a fascinating look.
بداية مبشرة وبعدين ملل لولا الرسم ولولا كام تفصيلة كانت هتبقي بشعةتجميعة من زواية الصحفي لعالم مارفل جايب الخارقين كلهم بيطلعوا بالتدريجمش بتركيز علي كل واحد فيهم قدر انهم متجمعين في مكان واحداكس مان وهلك وسبايدر وايرون مان وناس كتيره بتطلع كدا يعني متقدرش تقول فيه خط درامي واضح ماشيين فيهبداية كانت جيدة جدا وهي اللي تستحق النجمتين
