https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227570.Lady_Cottington_s_Pressed_Fairy_Book
Designed to resemble a reproduction of the awful little girl’s actual journal, the book comes with dozens of wonderful drawings—courtesy of Brian Froud, the man behind the creature designs for the movies Labyrinth and The Dark Crystal—of fairies splattered across age-yellowed pages.
Terry Jones of Monty Python renown is on writing duty, and he gleefully presents the Lady’s entries as a series of increasingly disturbing snapshots of the life she leads smooshing fairies, goblins, sprites, pixies, any pint-sized magical creature she can snap her book shut on like a trap.
A delightfully gloomy book; recommended for ages 6 and up.
Just read this again because I accidentally ordered it when I meant to order the sequel, Lady Cottington's Fairy Album. Cux those titles aren't really similar or anything...
Personally, I love Terry Jones's strange yet very creative story and Brian Froud's magical artwork in this book.
Terry Jones has always been one of my favorites in the “Python” gang of movies and the old BBC shows of “Monty Python & the Flying Circus” and Froud's gorgeous watercolor artwork is enchanting…even if the fairies all met an untimely squashing by a naughty little girl."Lady Cottington's Pressed Fairy Book" is full of the former Python's quirky story of what else...pressed fairies...the poor dears.
Lady Cottington’s journal is a coming of age story equipped with squished and squashed faires, pixes, and goblins! Angelica Cottington has the ability to see fae folk, but of course no one believes her. She grows and gets into some pretty hilarious romantic situations..which she blames on the fairies. I’ve loved Brian Froud since labyrinth (5th grade.) The journal entries are so darn believable that I was sure it was at least loosely based on some fairy sightings. I wasn’t able to find anything..:(I still believe though…Actually I did find the Cottingley Fairy incident.
Found a copy of the first edition today, yes!Finally after years of owning the pocket edition of this excellent book. What a beauty.
While I very much enjoyed the art work the story was less to be desired. It started out rather fun but made an awful turn for the worse. Very unfortunate. Had such potential.
A very witty tale told from a proper little old British lady’s point of view. You will find yourself chuckling out loud as you envision her running around her lovely old English garden in her Victorian lace dress and petticoat smashing little faeries in between her little note books. The video disk that comes with the book is also funny that shows Terry Jones narrating dressed in drag as a woman talking about these dreadful little creatures that she tries to catch. It’s a well worth easy read and Brian Froud’s artwork is always amazing!
The story is typical Monty Python -- lots of sexual innuendo, double-entendre, and some not-so-subtle crudity.What this book is all about is the incredible artwork, which shows a host of faeries, goblins, elves, and others. All crushed (brutally, gorily, hysterically) between the pages of a book by a Victorian girl. You get funny faces, nudity, gushes of bodily fluid, and outrageous poses. It's as if you drove a car at high speed through Fairy Land, and photographed the remains on your front windshield.It's great!!!
I read this book when I was in middle school I think, but even now I look back at it as very well done and interesting.
The entire book is full of "pressed fairies" that a young girl finds in her garden over a period in her life.
The book is set up like a diary, and the illustrations are just beautiful.
There is some nudity (as fairies aren't that modest), but that part of the book made it even more intriguing for a pre-pubescent as I was at the time.
A really nicely made book.
Froud's artwork is as lovely as ever. His pastel, water color type style meshes well with the subject of pressed-fairies. The concept of the naughty, bawdy fairies is quite charming and they had me chuckling to myself.The story itself - the diary of the girl who captured the fairies - is often amusing and charming, but at times quite terrible.
Having raised my daughter on Cicely Mary Barker's flower fairy images and poems, this send-up had me rolling with laughter. The fairies are the faces of repressed and sometimes deviant sexual desire. The irony is rich and fun.
Oh my Fairy Goddess! What a wonderful and creative book. I recommend it with all the fairy love I have in my heart, that certainly grew bigger upon reading this. A true delight of a book.
okay..cool idea. been dying to read this book for like...a lifetime. and now that I finally have..am I the only one completely disturbed by the repeated fairy rape? wtf?
While to the 21st-Century eye these fairies look like the obvious hoax they were, at the time they were enough to convince Sir Arthur Conan Doyle of their authenticity (partly due to the fact, we suspect, that A.C. Doyle was a devout Theosophist and wanted very badly to believe in such spiritual manifestations).
They were known as the "Cottingley Fairies." Fast-forward to 1994, when Monty Python member Terry Jones released this book, "proving" that the fairies did exist -- and that they had been pressed (squashed, really) like faded roses in the pages of a book kept by one "Lady Cottington." Gross, gruesome, grim, but the shock appeal alone is enough to make it funny.
The wave of ensuing LADY COTTINGTON'S PRESSED FAIRY BOOKs extended even to our own century.
A fun book, but I was told it was a bad birthday gift for my 10 year old niece. The replacement book, Wolves in the Walls scared her away from reading for a few months. Sigh. Kids..
I picked it up thinking it would simply be a series of smashed fairy pictures with cute, light descriptions by the girl who did the squishing.
Because of how the book was presented, how the beginning played out, starting with Angelica's childhood obsession of capturing fairies between the pages of a book, the underlying social commentary was just not readily accessible, and to me sort of difficult to actually pick up on.At first I actually hated the story...when (view spoiler)[ the book suddenly turned from funny-fairy-squishing to rape and more rape, well, it was a bit difficult to enjoy.
The further you delve into the story that Angelica writes the more twisted it gets, I might even go so far as to suggest a trigger warning.Nevertheless this is a beautiful book.
Admittedly the story itself made me a little uncomfortable while I was reading it but not in the sense where I was entertained.
This little girl squashes fairies between the pages until they're gone, that is twisted.
And as Angelica gets older the fairies grow a bit more uhm...
These fairies aren't good guys and I like how twisted they are and Angelica is messed up too.
Angelica is obviously thought of as backward by her family and friends, but this only serves her up with a decidedly warped draw.
Throughout the book however, it is apparent that a number of men are interested in quirky Angelica.
This slightly perverse pleasure has been on my bookshelf for years.
She probably never imagined naked faeries, let alone the sad fact that a little girl would squash them in a book ~SPLAT!~  Of course to the more mature woman, the concept of naughty, lewd little faeries is quite amusing.
This book is a wicked riot!
I read the whole thing standing in a used book store one afternoon shortly after it came out, and was more than a little disgusted by it.
(hide spoiler)]A friend got it for me as a birthday gift not long after I read it, thinking that it would be perfect for faerie loving me, and I gave that grin that says to most people "Oh, I LOVE IT!" but really means "Oh, I love YOU, so I'll PRETEND to love it!"Everyone has one of those grins, I've perfected mine over a number of years.I wanted to love this book, but the thought of smushing faeries, even if it's just to capture their essences (which really sounds dirty now that I think about it) put a bad taste in my mouth (which furthers that dirtiness earlier in the sentence, I guess).It's kind of making me sad thinking about it now, and I'm glad this wasn't around when I was a kid.
This is a very, very funny book about a young girl who catch a faerie in her book... Catched it with a SNAPPP! Because nobody believes her she decides to catch more faeries in her pressed flower book. During the years she SNAP SNAP SNAP catch faeries until she's to old to see them.The combination of Terry Jones hilarious text and Brian Froud's crazy pressed faeries makes this a wonderful book to read. I had to laugh about every pressed faerie because of the funny faces... hmmm... actually a little sad now I think about it... ^_^
I really love this book. I love this book so much I've bought it 3 times. I don't mean a copy for myself and two friends, but bought it for myself 3 times. (The first was lost in a move, the third I bought just for a new squashed fairy decal to put in my car window). There isn't a lot of actual writing, but the fairies crack me up every-time I look at them.
How very disconcerting to turn the pages of this scrapbook-like tale, and find fairies literally pressed between the pages, much as someone would press a pansy picked in the lane by a lover. If you believe in fairies, this may upset you. If not, this may still upset you. Very entertaining text to go with the fairies, whose expressions when caught and slapped between the pages are very bizarre.
I love love love this book. I owned the big hardcover edition but this one being small like a journal really gave me the understanding of how she wrote and how small the fairies where that she caught and smashed. It's tiny yet still has that magical imagination. The pictures are still breathtaking. I just love this edition.
Wow, I just stumbled across this in my library, in its 20 year anniversary.I'd forgotten how wickedly charming and - ehem - naughty it was, as well as such a visual delight. Definitely not for the younger ones, despite its attraction (fairies) for them.
My Nana once showed me this book when i was little and the faeries looked so realistic it made mebelieve they were a real collection of pressed faeries. This book has since always remained in the back of my mind as a book i'll never forget. there's no other book like it.
Strangely ugly pictures of fairies, as if the fairy were squashed between leaves of a book. Accompanied by text in hard-to-read script.So no, not a gift even for a little girl who inflicts /way/ too many fairy books on her dad.
I have had this book in my library for years. It is a whimsical book which puts a smile on your face. But the whimsical has a sinister side! The drawings are out of this world and the little "added" touches are worth buying the book and adding it to your library!
A curious little book with lovely artwork.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I didn't know fairies could be so naughty! I wonder what became of them? They just disappeared! The art work is wonderful! I highly recommend this book!
Library borrow; great drawings.
