https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168402.Occidental_Mythology
In the third volume of his monumental comparative survey of the development of mythological motifs, Campbell turns his attention to the emergence of the great Occidental religious traditions beginning in the Near East.
Campbell views this Near Eastern stratum as the point of departure for the great traditions of the Occident, which are characterized to a large degree by the strategies they employ for reconciling the new dictates of the civitas with the underlying neolithic archaic religious impulse.
Returning to the now-thoroughly-Semitic Near East, whose original Sumerian stock has long since been overrun by the desert peoples who created Babylon and Assyria, we see the emergence of a religious paradigm characterized by the complete separation between God-the-creator and the created world.
He's like a kindly old uncle, whose wonderful stories sparked in me a life long passion for mythology.
He's still Uncle Joe and I love him.This book has literally been sitting, unread, on my shelf for decades.
Campbell has an engaging style, particularly when discussing pagan/polytheistic mythologies.
The best thing about this book is its wealth of passages from primary sources.
The worst thing - Joe's tendency to reduce every deity to the Great Mother or her son, the dying Savior God. It's quite quaint, actually.Harmless and entertaining, if taken with a grain of salt.
In graduate school, when I asked my beloved mentor, Freudian/Lacanian David Wagenknecht about Carl Jung, his response was, "I dunno: a little too Joseph Campbell for me." There is no better or smarter human on earth than David and so I didn't read either Jung (who I worship) or Campbell (who I now really, really love) for many years.
I think the wait was just fine for me (sorry Dave) but I know I will be reading at least Campbell's Masks of God for the rest of my life (and perhaps also his Skeleton's Key to Finnegans Wake at least twice more).
I love these four books.
Joseph Campbell's work is fun to read, but it's not actually good scholarship.
It's not that he's imagining things that aren't in the text, or relying on others to do grunt work in translation that he isn't personally capable of doing.
For another, it's actually a pretty good entry point into narratology; Campbell is often very good at pointing out how stories are put together, and nobody in his right mind will argue that myths and legends are not very powerful as stories.
I love comparative mythology, and Campbell's book is indeed well written... in a way that brings joy to the comparative enthusiast, however, he's a sloppy researcher. His theories make sense...until a point. Once you dig deeper you can see how he tries to make things fit in, and if something doesn't...it will not be included...at all... so I believe that he's too much of a reductionist. Also I feel that his comparisons are a bit exaggerated and the monomyth theory doesn't have a solid background.
The connections between Judians, Christianity, and Islam are pretty evident, but to mix in Zorastrianism, the Levant, Greek and Roman mythology and how they all intermingled was fascinating. This book truly sparked an interest for me to research the origins of the Bible.
Joseph Campbell's books of which I have read four, continues and amplifies this insight..with a multiplicity of examples of the weaving and reweaving of threads and elements, the different depictions of "the hero", the different presentations of the "masks of god" etc.
The fourth book is Creative mythology which promises a different aspect and I do intend to read someday.Whether it is the monomyth or simply reuse of elements,Campbell is compelling in the sweep of his observations and the inclusion of information.He would point out that movie makers DO thru their craft continue the tradition of myth making with the same archetypes and of course, Star Wars , comes to mind.
This is the volume in Joseph Campbell's Masks of God that covers Judaism, Christianity, & Islam. It is especially useful for illuminating the fascinating and often surprising foundations of Judeo-Christian myth, and one would be hard-pressed to find a more meticulous and thorough guide to such things. This is an exemplary work, although not quite perfect. For instance, Campbell sometimes made connections that later historical discoveries proved erroneous (He implied Stonehenge was inspired by Mycenaean constructions. This was believed by a number of people in Campbell's time. Now we know that Stonehenge is far older than previously thought.)
Like everyone else at the time, I was, I admit, a true believer in Jospeh Campbell. But the more I read the more I realised how prejudiced he could be at times against Western religions..esp the Roman Catholic Church. Now, there is nothing wrong per se with being against the RCC. But there is when you let it influence how you look at other religions. Which, as it turns out, he did admit in several interviews. Which is a shame,because he had some truly original thoughts about mythology.
The first two chapters deal heavily with symbol as Woman gaining substance and power in myth (as in metaphor) and in religion (as in spiritual worship) and how the mother goddess was further established among the varied vegetal cultures and intermixed with the occidental view which up to a time (prior to and parallel to the rise and fall of the Greek and Roman civilizations) was mainly that of the male-dominated hunter clans.
However, Campbell is so well versed in his subject I believe he forgets at times that the reader does not come to his books with the same base familiarity in the nuances of his subject.
516 Beginning with the Greeks, Babylonians and Zoroaster with his Ahura Mazda, Campbell walks through the motifs that have been borrowed and transformed to help convey the morals of the Western foundational religions.
For purists, even if the book is not the best written, it is overflowing with historical ideas and connections that are invaluable to understanding the myths and values which drive us.________________________________________________________Campbell is by no means immune to inspiration.
That made for a four star rating.But yes, I did think this book took things to another level.
I think it's unfair nevertheless to categorize Campbell as anti-Christian or anti-Catholic as some have in reviews, because I think such readers are missing the point--or perhaps haven't read the first two books.
In Oriental Mythology Campbell wrote of the claim of the Chinese to five thousand years of history as mythological--a claim I've heard repeated as recently as last week in a commercial for a dance company.
Another well researched and presented exploration of the myths and religion that drive our world. This volume, by far, was the longest read in the series for me due to the amount of times I would check the references because they appeared to be inconsistent with what I thought I knew. As it turns out, what we believe we know about the Western religions is not always exactly what is written and that the history is far more convoluted and corrupted than many think.
This was one of the densest and most enjoyable books I have read in a while. Campbell constantly references the previous two volumes in the series, so it is a very easy thing to pick up the flow of the mythological connections between the various areas and eras of the world by reading this one volume. It took me quite a while to read, however, more so than any of Campbell's other works have taken. Lengthy block quotes from ancient texts litter the pages.
the Masks of God books are a wonderful tour nd education on mythology nd the interconnected ideas of mankind. I feel I am walkin away with a much different idea of what God can mean nd be. I am also watching some of Joseph Campbell lectures online on youtube they are amazing.The whole series on him and his work is stellar. He was always clear, never simplistic, articulated dense themes with patience and understanding.
At times, a brilliant book, at times a bit overwritten, but still quite important, looking at the evolution of mythology/religion in the West, including the decline of the Græco-Roman rule, the rise of Christian and Muslim orthodoxy and then the emergence in the Renaissance and Reformation of the idea of the individual directly his own relationship to G-d.Not as good as the Hero with a Thousand Faces, but a good read (usually)
. . . how amazingly current it reads -- the clash of religions, politics, etc., that is still happening today.This is a good read in understanding Western thought and Eastern thought, and on the fusing of the two in certain sects of both. Very interesting. --From A Reader's Journal, by d r melbie.
I read the entire Masks of God series, but not in order, being introduced to it by Rich Hyde, a friend from high school who also attended college and seminary with me, while the two of us were at grandmother's cottage together. In all of them the influence of C.G. Jung's archetype theory is pronounced.
Uma abordagem diferente que só Joseph Campbell deu às mitologias. Abordadas de modo psicológico, alegórico, não-religioso e não-sobrenatural. Um bom livro para se entender a história psicológica da humanidade.
Don't start with this one - go read "Primitive Mythology" and then "Oriental Mythology", as the themes discussed here need to be placed in the context of the larger narrative arc developed throughout the series.The series, overall: well worth all 2000+ pages.
A truly great book. People who think that they know everything about their religion to read this in order to get an idea of what went before and what cultural/historical currents they are swimming in without knowing that they are doing so.
covers the historical times & spaces most familiar to students of the 'western tradition,' moving from the levant through Persia, Egypt, Greece, Rome, and so on. Despite the familiar setting and period, perspective will defamiliarize (it's not intentionally brechtian, but the effect is similar).
Interested in mythology? Read Joseph Campbell. Interested in religion? Read Joseph Campbell. Interested in art? Read Joseph Campbell. Interested in History? Read Joseph Campbell. Interested in philosophy...
Campbell uncovers the roots of Occidental religions by discussing the artifacts and myths of the Levant, Egypt, Greece, and Rome. The common themes of the snake, the goddess, the intertwined snakes (caduceus) demonstrate the possible common influences of the subsequent traditions in these area.
All the Joseph Campbell books scratch a really deep itch to understand your favorite stories in the grand context of the history of humanity. I haven't ventured past The Power of Myth, but I'm especially excited to challenge my preconceptions with some of the non western myths he discusses.
Really very good. Very complete, covers each oriental group in detail. I was confused by the inclusion of Egypt and Mesapotamia (I don't think of either as Oriental per se) but, it was a coherant piece that had strong overarching themes. Very highly reccomended.
Was great for research purposes but I did find his writing a little dry, even condescending at times. It is definitely a very academic book, which is to be expected of course. But extremely interesting all the same.
Heavy read, interesting ideas.. a bit of yawner though as his writing style is very dry.Idea of victor telling the story and myths being written by the rulers is intriguing.
This just really hits my personal fascination with Eastern thought and spirituality. Again, it makes for great pondering...
The amazing mind of Joseph Campbell continues to order, then blow apart my own mind ...
