https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46755.Surfacing
Nothing good ever comes from two couples locking themselves in some cabin in the woods.
(See "Evil Dead," "Cabin Fever," "Cabin in the Woods"...
well, actually just the first one [for I do think the latter two suh-uck!]) Ehhh-verr.But Margaret Atwood is not a horror writer.
This is her take on the isolation that begets thoughts too deep to describe other than in her language.
But reading her is like falling atop a velvet cushion, too placid to notice the bugs infesting it, getting under your skin, creeping you out.
Her themes are like insects that burrow, give you a terrible virus, & never let go.
She becomes one with earth, fire, water and air, loses touch with modern life - "American" is her generalised term for the half-machines that take over the natural habitats of the planet.
In an act of faith in the power of mysterious nature, she creates an auto-da-fé of her past self, burning the traces of her old identity while reinventing a person ready to live and to give life.
Beautifully clear and fragile, like a bubble surfacing in the water.
Atwood's previous novel, The Edible Woman, dealt with a young woman who is so terrified of marriage that it causes her to lose her touch with reality and fall deeper and deeper into mental illness.
The whole novel is essentially our narrator's internal monologue throughout this strange week by the lake.It becomes obvious early on that we are stuck in the mind of a mentally ill young woman.
I'm pretty sure I didn't quite get it then, being a very young adult, unaware of many things going on in this far-out, complex ride into the Canadian wilderness.Maybe I did, maybe I didn't.
As well, having spent 8 years living in Quebec, I know first hand the prejudices and tensions between English and French.
Margaret Atwood is such a powerhouse, "feminist" does not cover it; she shoots female identity so far out of the box, she isn't contained by language, clothes, or definitions.I tried for all those years to be civilized but I'm not and I'm through pretending.
The day I stick bait on a hook to fish will symbolize the End Times and you can know with great certainty that all men on the planet are now dead.So, if you happen to know the general plot of Margaret Atwood's Surfacing, you can understand, with confidence, that I have very little in common with the Unnamed Protagonist.
We both might have had unusual parents, but the commonalities stop there.Unnamed Protagonist is a woodsy gal, not necessarily by choice, but by a plan of her father's making.
Atwood probes memory, language, meaning and identity (personal, national), knitting together a story of a mind unravelling under the pressure of grief, de-individuation, and the conventional social and gender roles that just don't fit and need to be shed like skin.
She constructs her story by deconstructing her protagonist's past, and more specifically, the many layers of self-deception, delusion and imposed meaning (the sediment of personal history) that muddies the truth.
These themes Atwood weaves together with the personal story.
I realize that it can be read that way, but for me it seemed that city life was the most constricting and limiting thing that had ever happened to this young woman, and when she got away from civilization, away from other peoples opinions and judgments, she could simply be, simply exist, without gender norms, without being put into different boxes like "woman", "mother" and so on.
A lot of people read simply to see what happens next, but I need something more than that to really love a book.
It starts out slowly and straightforwardly with two couples visiting the remote island cabin that belonged to the narrator’s missing father.
There is also a strong anti-American, anti-colonial theme: wanting to repel those who want to take over and spoil the wilderness.(view spoiler)[The narrator is trying to resolve issues with her dead mother and missing father, her boyfriend, her ex-husband and their child she left behind, a former lover, the natural world, and whether she wants to be a wife, mother, artist or even an ordinary human.Quite early on, we are told that “madness is private” and later that it is “only an amplification of what you already are”.
A fascinating early work by Atwood, if perhaps not quite one that hits the heights of the likes of Cat's Eye, Alias Grace and The Blind Assassin.We meet the unnamed narrator travelling north through Quebec in a car with two men and another woman.
It transpires that they are two couples, going to investigate the disappearance of her father, who has been living in a remote cabin on a lake island where he has been largely self sufficient.
The story draws the reader in brilliantly as it becomes clear that what she is really investigating is her own past.
The story starts out with an unnamed narrator who is on a trip to a remote cabin with her boyfriend and a married couple.
The couple and the boyfriend are filming a documentary and are hoping for some footage.
The narrator is extremely damaged from her past which she is not completely honest with herself about.
The couple have a marriage that is crumbling.In her search for her father our narrator comes face to face with her own demons and it's not a pretty picture.I'm so glad that I read this and I definitely need more Margaret Atwood in my life.
The second Atwood book I have read, and it was just as absorbing and as striking as the first, The Handmaid's Tale.
Both books have female protagonists that develop an aversion for animal flesh and human beings and later themselves and retreat into themselves but with varying repercussions.The unnamed female protagonist, together with three others leave the city for a cabin by a lake in the woods she grew up in.
Experiencing the loss of her parents, the protagonist combs through her past and nature to find links that connect her to her childhood and her family.Through the protagonist, Atwood examines the destructive nature of human beings, against each other and the other living creatures they have to share spaces with.
I think it would have had more of an impact on me personally if I was able to read it in a sitting or two (but, alas, life inhibits uninterrupted reading).
This work, as many of Atwood's, comments on the physical nature of women, including the intricacies of childbirth, and the roles of men and women in domestic life.
I think the title refers to the narrator; throughout the book she is working to distance herself from the restrictions imparted on society, especially women, in everyday life.
By the end, she is finally able to escape the institutionalized expectations of the female/human role and "surface" anew.
Let's all pause and bow our heads to offer a silent prayer of thanks that Margaret Atwood has improved with time.
The copy I have of this book is part of a larger volume containing three Atwood novels.
Because there's no plot synopsis on the back of the book or the inside of the jacket, I dove into it having no idea what it was going to be about.
Without giving away the ending, I will just say that it's confusing as hell and I still don't know what the point of it all was.I make it sound like a mystery thriller.
But even confusing, no-clear-plot Atwood is still Atwood.
She has brought along her current lover and a married couple whom, removed from their city life in Toronto, she is able to see clearly and critically, and bit by bit she comes to measure how far removed she has become from the more conscious life of her childhood.She first misinterprets what she finds in her father's cabin, but while trying to decipher what she believes are clues to his whereabouts, she ends up having a deep epiphany and helps unfreeze her own traumatized mind.
I just want to start by saying that I've read some strange books, but this one's definitely up there.
Beyond that, I'm not really sure what happened.The protagonist, a young woman from whose perspective the book is told but whose name is never revealed, returns to northern Quebec to the remote island of her childhood, with her lover and two friends, to investigate the disappearance of her father.'Surfacing' explores personal, national, and gendered identity; the pressure of society; grief and loss; isolation and separation; and memory and language, and it does so in exquisite prose.
Surfacing, or all the way you can be haunted - by your childhood, your parents, your marriage, your brother who may or may not have drowned before or after you were born - you may remember him, you may never have met him.
I can’t remember).
Or it might all be PTSD from (view spoiler)[abortion.
No one ever talks about PTSD from abortion.
(hide spoiler)]He said he loved me, the magic word, it was supposed to make everything light up.
I’ll never trust that word again.**edit: I was thinking of Faulkner.
"The past is never dead.
It's not even past."
One of several books I've read in the past year about women going insane in one way or another due to the restrictions imposed on them by men or by society.
I think books only need to be either entertaining or artistic.
The whole "I can't stand the way the world treats women therefore I will lose my mind and live like an animal" seems to be a sexist idea of its own--that women's psyches are so fragile it's either mindless subservience or mindless savagery.
I love a book that makes me think and this one certainly did.

I couldn't even feel for the characters.
The atmosphere remains well-crafted throughout the entire book, and I can understand a need to delay the plot advancement somewhat in the interest of developing said atmosphere, or, say, the characters, but there was just too much for this reader to trudge through, with little payoff.
As for that character development, I can see how perhaps the lack thereof was a purposeful attempt to give the reader the same disconnection from them that our heroine feels, but it all just left me bored and feeling like I was wasting my time.
"To become like a little child again, a barbarian, a vandal; it was in us too, it was innate."--Margaret Atwood, SurfacingSurfacing would be a very interesting book to study.
If Margaret Atwood has not yet been considered for a Pulitzer or Nobel Prize in literature (she's won pretty much every other award), it's just a matter of time.That said, I didn't like this book.
Had I not missed my calling as a professor of literature, I might have spent months or years mining this book for its symbolism and literary elegance.
As things stand, I'll probably follow it up with a good, light "cozy."Do I recommend this book?
With her at her father’s lakeside cabin are her boyfriend Joe, whom she’s not sure she loves, and their friends David and Anna, a married couple whose dynamic is rather disturbing – David is always making demeaning sexualized jokes about Anna, who is afraid to ever let him see her without makeup on.This is a drifting, dreamy sort of book whose gorgeous nature writing (“Above the trees streaky mackerel clouds are spreading in over the sky, paint on a wet page; no wind at lake level, soft feel of the air before rain”) inures you to various threats.
Also like "The Edible Woman", the protagonist in this novel sees her sanity slip away slowly when the pressures of other people's expectations become unbearable and un-relatable.The male characters in "Surfacing" are obnoxiously misogynistic: given that this was written around the same time it is set in, it makes me really angry to think that women were subjected to this sort of talk on a daily basis (from their husbands!) and that this was considered perfectly normal.
An unpleasant but gripping story of a woman succumbing to psychosis.The unnamed narrator returns to her father's home on an island in a lake in Quebec because her father has gone missing.
Her distance, depression and detachment aren't helped by being around these frankly horrible people and she goes from depressed to unstable fairly quickly.This is a horrible story.
In fact, I'm torn how to rate it: as a critic, or a reader.
These are horrible people going through horrible things, mostly due to their own stupid, human, but stupid, choices.I'm glad it was short.
I tried her The Blind Assassin before and couldn't finish it, even though I read about 200 pages.
The problems with this are very different than why (I recall) that I couldn't finish the other.
I would like to think this was one of the ones he was less sure about because as far as I can see there is nothing about it which is fundamental to understanding Western culture.
My last problem with this is the blatant American hate.
"But then I realized it wasn't the men I hated, it was the Americans, the human beings, men and women both." There were several such sentences.
A young woman goes home to rural Canada to search for her missing father. Throughout this short novel, we watch the narrator descend into madness. Not Atwood's finest work by any means, but it's very readable.
It is also a great read.After reading some splendid articles by Margaret Atwood about two years ago, I resolved to love and adore her fiction.
Unfortunately, I started with a novel entitled Life Before Man. I gave it three stars because I could see it was brilliantly observant and very good for what it was.
Atwood's lead has a coldness about her (blatantly; she often claims to be incapable of love), every line was again observant, and I sensed a 200 page monologue slamming men on the horizon (I think the 70's must have had a different breed).
No me extraña que a Harold Bloom le guste tanto y creo que a mí me tenía que haber impresionado. Pero, por algo que hay en ella no me identifico y parece que la leo detrás del cristal de la ventana donde ocurre todo.
This was my third reading of Surfacing and I'm still not sure I totally get it. Each read has been rewarding though. It went up a star for me this time. I think this novel works a lot like a poem. It's about what you feel rather than what can be perfectly, clearly articulated.
8/10 stars
If you don't mind imagined ravings comprising more pages than story action, you might get what was intended out of this.
I appreciate books outside my preference, if I like the subject and writing.
Past-tense, in first person or not, at least makes us the audience we ought to be.The distancing style, droning tone, and grammar do not bespeak one star.
She snaps and thinks that to commune with her relatives' spirits and remove anguish; she should function as an animal, even forsaking their garden because it is fenced.
I would even grant Margaret this, if a meltdown ending were her point.
