https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128898.The_Reformation
The Reformation (The Story of Civilization #6), Will DurantThe Story of Civilization, Volume VI: A history of European civilization from Wyclif to Calvin: 1300-1564. This is the sixth volume of the classic, Pulitzer Prize-winning series.عنوانها: اصلاح دین؛ اصلاح دینی؛ نویسنده: ویل دورانت؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: اصلاح دینی - کتاب ششم از تاریخ تمدن؛ نویسنده: ویل دورانت؛ مترجمها: فریدون بدره ای؛ سهیل آذری؛ پرویز مرزبان؛ تهران، اقبال، 1345 ؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، سازمان آموزش انقلاب اس

Holland boasted of several ladies who could be courted in Latin, who could probably conjugate better than they could decline. So continues Durant’s tour through European history.As Durant himself points out, calling this book The Reformation is not really accurate, for it is actually a history of all Europe (besides Italy) between 1300 and 1564, with a few other topics thrown in. This book effectively completes the picture painted in his earlier volume, The Renaissance, which covered the histor
This book effectively completes the picture painted in his earlier volume, The Renaissance, which covered the history of Italy during this same time.
I am unconvinced of the wisdom of separating Italy from everywhere else, since you can hardly understand Luther without being acquainted with Renaissance Rome, nor can you understand the political situation in Italy without this wider context; but I suppose there are more inelegant solutions to dealing with so much material.Even if much more than the Reformation is covered, the story of the Reformation lies at the heart of this book.
In a note to his readers, Durant writes that “The Reformation” (Part 6 of The Story of Civilization) “is not quite an honest title for this book.” “An accurate title would be,” he says, “A History of European Civilization Outside of Italy from 1300 to 1564, or Thereabouts, Including the History of Religion in Italy and an Incidental View of Islamic and Judaic Civilization in Europe, Africa, and Western Asia.” While the information on the reformation -- the N.
Whereas the previous work on the Renaissance was drastically restricted to the art of Italy, and even more so, to the three cities of Florence, Rome and Venice, this work deals with developments in the religious, political, economic, social, moral and artistic spheres of not only Italy, but also Germany, France, England, Spain, Holland and Eastern Europe.
While the principal emphasis is on the religious challenge posed by not only Luther, but also by Wyclif, Huss, Calvin, Knox, Zwingli and the French Huguenots to the Catholic Church, a virtually equal emphasis is given to the rise of the absolutist nation state, and principally to the three larger-than-life rulers of the sixteenth century: Charles V, Henry VIII and Francis I.
Will Durant books on the series 'The Story of Civilization' are always voluminous.
The book is in three parts.
While the first two parts are well researched accounts of how the reformers took over Europe between 1300 to 1575 AD, the third part contains history of Islamic Civilization, story of the Turkish empire which aspired to conquer Europe in its entirety and managed to conquer upto Spain.
The book is very readable to those who have the time and inclination, which incidentally I have!
A classic book written by Will and Ariel Durrant on the the reformation. A little dated since it was written in the 1950s but still very insightful on the conflict between Protestantism and Luther and the Catholic Church and how the Catholic Church responded along with all the political intrigues of that time. So worth the read of 940 pages.
عالی مثل تمام جلدهای قبلی حماقت کشیش ها واقعیت جریان لوتری ضربات مذهب و .... رفتم جلد بعدی

Owing to a spotty education in the public schools and in college, the period from the early Roman empire until the Enlightenment was a pretty grey area for me until seminary. There, thanks to required church history classes and inspired subsequent reading, I 'got into' the European middle ages through the Reformation, which, arguably, heralded the true birth of the modern.As ever, Durant's survey is an excellent introduction to the period.
The book starts slow, becomes tumultuous, and as it ends leaves you wanting more. Durant is the voice of history for me. His prose rises and falls with the times. I lament that he is not here to write of our own.
When fanatic Christians massacred while Islam was tolerantEric Hoffer’s classic “The True Believer,” which I reviewed March 11, gave me some insight into the fanaticism driving the religious violence and terrorism that is tearing apart so much of the world.“The Reformation: A History of European Civilization from Wyclif to Calvin: 1300 – 1564,” volume six of Will Durrant’s massive and monumental 10-volume “The Story of Civilization,” reminds me that, until very recent times, the violence, atrocities, and bloodshed committed under the name of Christianity were every bit as violent and atrocious as that committed by the fanatic fringe of Islam today.
These are books to read, enjoy, study, and treasure.TAGS Christianity, Islam, Jews, Religion, Reformation, Massacres, Sectarianism, Religious Persecution, Crucifixion, Crusades, Protestants, Catholicism, Heretics, Witches, Torture, Atrocities, Burning at the stake, Intolerance, Martin Luther, John Calvin
Rudnicki reads the book with his usual understated competence, but this time out the author maybe didn't have quite enough material---I often felt as if the narrative was a bit attenuated, filled out with too many examples and occasional repetitions. Still, it's a grand tale of men (and, occasionally, women) and ideas in conflict, easy to follow and lit with flashes of humor. Terrific for listening to on long walks, as are the other volumes in the series.
It's easy to get self satisfied after reading such a large and ponderous volume.
While the entire series contains a comprehensive overview of a liberal education, the essence of cultural literacy, this particular volume contains struggles the world still wrestles with today.
If you are not a fan of the Durants now, you surely will be after that.
Maybe that will give you the courage to open the book again.
And once again it's not that much of these events were not known to me beforehand.The Durants are scholars.
You will feel smarter for having read their books.
John Wyclif, John Huss and others anticipated Luther and Calvin and paved the way for their thinking and actions.
This book gives the reader a very comprehensive look into the Reformation and why it came about.
Durant, along with his wife Ariel, spent their lives creating a massive and comprehensive look at world history.
Unlike other biographers of Luther and Calvin, he shines lights into the very dark corners of their beliefs and actions that seminaries fail to teach their charges.
I believe it is important to understand the dark sides of Calvin and Luther - not just the world-changing actions both sponsored.
Another great book from the Durant's! One of the few books to successfully separate the Mennonites from their wayward Anabaptist brethren the Munsterites, and state the Mennonite world view without lumping them in with the Quakers. He is largely humanistic in his outlook (not judgin', just sayin'), which probably gave him the distance needed to make these two important distinctions that many sectarian historians do err in.
Reading Durant's "The Story of Civilization" has been/is becoming one of the greatest experiences of my life. It is a joy I recommend to everyone.
I was expecting the material to focus on the Protestant Reformation, but Durant was trying to cover the entire period of history between 1300 and 1564 (which the subtitle makes clear: "A History of European Civilization from Wyclif to Calvin").
It's pretty clear throughout the book that he does not look favorably upon religion, but yet he seems to deal pretty fairly with the topic as well.
So if you want to know more about this entire period of history and have much time to devote to reading, this book is for you.
The Reformation || A History of European Civilization Outside of Italy from 1300 to 1564.
Story of Civilization#6- From Wyclif to Luther- The Religious Revolution- The Strangers in The Gate- The Counter Reformation It was a long read - 1000+ pages -.
Though most of the reformation took place in Europe between the 1300 and 1600 the book takes us also through the Mongol Empire, The Rise of Othmans, Mamluks and Safavid.
Figures like Joan of Arc, Bloody Marry, Gengis Khan, Suliman The Magnificent beside the main people of the reformations like Luther, Zwingli, Knox and Calvin.
The Reformation had to be.
While I liked the book and the somewhat chatty style of the writing, it read like a catalog of famous Popes, reformers, kings, artists, and monks in far too many places, especially when he was discussing the peoples outside of Western Europe.
The peoples of Islam, Iberia, and eastern Europe were glossed over in an avalanche of names and works.
But since this was a study of the Reformation that took place in a limited time in a limited region of the world I can understand his emphasis, but then why look at these other peoples at all since they were not really part of the world undergoing the Reformation.
Part of the joy of reading them is how much they love doing this.
The introduction gives me a smile, like they're thinking, "We better explain this." The result is a fascinating story of the Reformation, what led to it, what happened around it, and how this changed people's lives.I enjoyed looking up the locations.
The inside cover pages are maps, and when I looked up the places in the atlas and Google maps, it was interesting to me to see where events occurred and to imagine how their world-changing ideas spread in that age of communication.
An interesting time and a great read.
The authors took on an immense amount of material wrangled under the heading of The Reformation and they admitted up front.
This book is at its best, not surprisingly, when it deals with… The Reformation, and wanders somewhat in a very wide-angled efforts to provide context.
The Durants do provide this context admirably, explaining factors why The Reformation may have had such an impact at this time without pooh-poohing the impact of individuals sincerely convinced that they were doing God's work.
Notably, they make a gracious effort to document the pronouncements of Martin Luther the doctrinal firebrand AND Martin Luther, the endearing, humorous, compassionate man.
This is my favorite book of the series so far.
I listen to the Blackstone audio version.
The reader is great and so was the book.
I listen while I walk so this one took about 160 miles to finish.
The turmoil, fights between Protestants ,Catholics, kings, scholars and philosophers make today’s political battles seem tame.
At least we aren’t beheading people and burning them at the stake for heresy, political incorrectness or aligning with the wrong government office.
The terrible fights over trivial differences makes you want to scream.
Good book on to the next volume.
Ps the Durants did a great job with this series.
Read the following lines and have a sip of Durant's wine.
In one sense the drama of religious, political, and martial conflict that filled the front of sixteenth century was superficial, for it proceeded only by permission of a deeper drama played behind the historic scenes or beneath the pompous stage - man's daily and perpetual battle with soil, the elements, poverty, and death.
what, after all, were the bulls and blasts of popes and protestants, the rival absurdities of murderous mythologies, the strut and succession, gout and syphilis, of emperors and kings, compared with the inexorable struggle of food, shelter, clothing, health, mates, children, life?
Always eloquent, stylish, Durant makes you love history of humankind, not despise it as a chronology of only wars and human sufferings. 5 books to go, way to go.
Rich and full read!
Chugging along. I love this series.
Wonderful, complete, incisive, broad history of civilisation. Brilliant in every way
Despite the title, as the author says, a more accurate title would be, "A History of European Civilization Outside of Italy from 1300 to 1564, or Thereabouts, Including the History of Religion in Italy and an Incidental View of Islamic and Judaic Civilization in Europe, Africa, and Western Asia." In other words, Durant gives the full context of the Reformation.
Durant's volume starts with the fourteenth century reformers Wyclif and Louis of Bavaria, and then Huss of the fifteenth century.
For such a big book, it wasn't that hard of a read.Oh, what a madman that Luther fellow was!I cannot say that I have ever read anything as vile and calumnious as the words - practically all thereof - written by Luther.
Every last aspect of life was so completely regimented, and people from the church were commissioned to go through each house in the district to ensure complete compliance on an annual basis.In the end, though, the Reformation does not seem to have been very much motivated by religion.
Durant had the rare gift of writing that was composed of the details, and composing those details in such a graceful way that the significance and the Story of his subject was never lost.
It seems to me that the man did not know how to write a sentence that lacked grace and charm, yet grace and charm were never idle ornaments; they were always hard at work conveying an intelligent, even erudite, and alway humane perspective on the Big Story in which we all are immersed.
His massive Story of Civilization is one of the rare items that I recommend to Everyone who reads.
