https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106393.The_Coldest_Winter_Ever
Lovely read! A classic,ruthless,blunt with lots of cliffhangers in the storyline and is exceptionally written. I encourage everyone to read this book (paperback!)
Winter also sees no problem with spending a few hundred dollars on an outfit and other luxuries.
Winter never sees her downfall until the very end.
A girl, who is accustomed to the "best", has to figure out how to live a life without it, as though she never had any more than anyone else.I loved the book.
I wouldn't be surprised if it someone's real life story.
If there are young girls out there who are misguided by all of the glitz and glitter of the drug game, this is an excellent story to set them straight.
But if you are wicked sheltered and don't know that drugs are bad and destroy communities, check this out, because like The Wire, it shows all aspects: the users, the dealers, the way communities are divided as people die, are jailed, and betray each other.
I kind of want other celebrities to write novels in which they give practical advice like this.
Sage advice from celebrity pens.All in all, it was in no way as painful as reading those romance novels, and the scene in the abortion clinic waiting room was effective and depressing.Oh, and also this:
This in the voice of Souljah herself, who appears as herself in the book:Drugs is a government game… A way to rob us of our best black men, our army.
Her real crush is a different matter: Midnight is above the game, self-contained, disciplined, and apparently not interested in Winter, who firmly believes she is irresistable.
There's a disturbing section after her notes written from his viewpoint in which he says 'homosexuality never existed in my country' which underlines a homophobic comment from Souljah within the novel, and another horribly erasing remark in the notes about black men being led astray from 'natural sexuality and gender'.
This is the ultimate "hood lit" novel, but Souljah does it with such style, not amateurism.
Oooo, Winter Santiaga is so mean! Yet, so likeable. She's a total Scarlett O'Hara character.Also, way to drop some crazy metafiction in there, Sister Souljah! And feminism. This book is a classic in the making. It's probably the next A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.
I loved this book because it was very real...not that I know anything about the ghetto, but it kept my interest because it was written from a real life perspective. I was always yelling at the main character in the book for being a complete idiot, but that's why I loved it too.
Overrated that’s what I first thought when I finished reading the Coldest Winter Ever by sister souljah.
She wanted to be this spoke person for women maybe that’s why she made the character winter seem so naïve to make her self seem better.
I really didn’t like how she made every somewhat decent man in the book wanted her but she wouldn’t give him the time of the day, that just started to irritate me.
Try to sty cool, you know?” The way the character midnight acted made me like the story even more.
Oh boy I completely devoured this book. It was so much better than I expected. It takes real life situations and makes them accessible to everyone. I didn't like Winter as a character but boyyy is her story like so many other young women who get caught up in an endless cycle of trying to keep up with a lifestyle that's not realistic especially when it's funded by drug money. I definitely will be checking out the next book in this series even though it's not necessarily a direct sequel.
I might have enjoyed the book more if she had not written herself into the novel as a free-spirited woman, helping children who have "Lost their way" without playing any significant part in the narrative other than boisterously portraying how much she's above all these women.
Only a narcissist can write herself into her own novel as a "Deus Ex-Machina".All that set aside; even Swann's way does not have a 80 page appendix explaining its intricacies.
I do not see the point of an 80 page (once again 80 PAGES; a quarter of the actual book's length!) appendix explaining the meaning behind each and every page.
And now I got the bends.Imagine you're reading On Cheshil Beach by Ian McEwan, and after the famous wedding night scene a friend of Florence told her that her and Edward should really go and see this highly recommended marriage guidance councellor, so they decide to give it a shot, and it turns out to be a guy called Ian McEwan, who is this lovely wise person who they instantly trust.
Then imagine Ian McEwan writes an 80 page commentary on his novel and includes it as an appendix, pointing out for less perspicacious readers who represents what and the moral inferences you should be – er – inferring as you read.
I tried to remember what made me enjoy reading so much and, after rereading The Coldest Winter Ever, now I've got it.
I always enjoyed reading but there was a time when books seemed to come alive for me and it is marked by Sister Souljah's first novel.
I'm not sure Sister Souljah meant for The Coldest Winter to be such a dynamic literary work, as I know it has impacted the lives of MANY young Black men and women who felt shut out of literature.
Sister Souljah's The Coldest Winter Ever is insightful, educational and entertaining.
Winter is the beautiful first born daughter of a drug kingpin in Brooklyn, She's treated like a ghetto princess.
Of course you know what usually happens with drug kingpins - the father goes to jail and all their bank accounts & valuable property is seized.
If you are fascinated by hood life and the fools that partake in it you should read this book.p.s. As a geeky black woman with a middle class upbringing I never liked girls like Winter and they have never liked me either lol.
Many people have brought up The Wire in context of this book, as the two share similar subject matters and approach many of the same issues facing the African American community in the States when it comes to drug trade.
Souljah's prose is entertaining and page turner-y at its best, and when it comes to educating oneself on the actual subject matter of the novel or street literature in general (or if one is looking to compare and contrast their personal experiences with that of Winter's, which many readers have done according to Souljah), TCWE does have its merits.
Now I remember why this is my all time fav!My opinion of Souljah dwindled after reading the three books that followed this in the series.
(Two of the Midnight books and Porsche's book) I found her writing style to be all over the place and heavily laced with personal and sometimes offensive opinions.
Re-reading this story made me fall in love with the characters and the author all over again.
What I love about this novel over the others is while the opinions are still there, it is not as blatant as in the Midnight books.
Took me 65 pg to get in to it.... But so worth it!!
I am a little embarrassed that I hadn't read this one before--it was published about 10 years ago but it still seems to be THE book by which all urban fiction is judged.
The problem, if you consider it a problem, is that the parts of the book about Sister Souljah (the preachier parts) are by far the least engrossing.
Maybe I'm completely wrong, and teens are reading this for the valuable lesson Winter learns by being hauled off to jail in the end.
In the last few pages of the book, we check back in with her after a few years in jail.
She got everything she deserved and the end really didn’t state whether she really learned from her mistakes...and some of what happened to her — there was no reasoning behind it.
She didn’t learn anything.
She didn’t learn anything.
So what, she never went to visit him, and didn’t see him until her mom’s funeral.
Sista Soulja wrote the character of Winter in a very superficial manner.
We never got to see what Winter was really thinking...we just saw her react.
Or perhaps she didn’t think enough and that was her problem, but I can’t say.
I want better for my child and unlike the characters in this book I will give her more the RIGHT WAY.
It is waaayyyyy to easy to open my legs for what I want to some high roller who probably has AIDS or isn't worth the space he's taking up.
BUT that's the way it is, you can be on top today but if the foundation your standing on isn't built on solid ground you can sink in the very place you started to build.
~I will continue to build a solid foundation even if it takes me a while to find the soil and even harder to finally carry the building tools~
I could not put this book down, no matter what was going on around me. This world was far from my world, yet it was so real. How long does it take to learn a lesson?
I really enjoyed this book. I can't wait to read the rest in the series. I just Winter would've chose a better decisions but hey when your back is up against the wall, you'll do anything by any means to survive. Read this book. Its worth it.
Read this years ago (it is THE book that made me want to be a writer) and loved it. Reading it again with my Teens Book Club.
One of the best street novels you would ever want to get your hands on.
Winter Santiago is a spoiled brat and when her world is turned into a full 360 she has to find a way to survive.
If you think you can use your body to get you what you want, your are in dullison.
But Winter thought she could.
When it is all said and done Winter is in a place that she never thought she would be.
Learn from the life of Winter Santiago, this is a brilliant book.
I've read this book almost 5 years ago but I remember loving it. This book is the book that originally got me hooked onto the urban/street lit genre. My first urban book. And oooh did I love me some midnight... Definitely a must read!
Finally done. The only problem I had with this book was that it was mad long. Other than that the story was banging, and it went hard from out the gate, so I had to give it five stars.

she took us on a roller coasterr ride! she was magnificent
3.5 stars This book was an interesting read, scandalous, action packed and a little funny.
The only reasons I can’t give it five stars is that I really struggled getting through it because the mc is really unlikeable, she has no compassion for anyone, super vapid, her priorities are never straight and it was frustrating at times to read her inner monologue.
Another thing: the author incorporated herself in the book and that was weird cuz she was written as this really insightful woke black woman but almost everything she said was not great, super judgmental and there’s a lot of weird homophobic shit in here which was annoying and honestly unnecessary because it contributed nothing to the story but whatever.
As soon as anyone hears this name of this book all I hear are GREAT things so needless to say I was scared to start because I didn't want to be let down.
Now I see why everyone is upset she took so much time off from writing.
She should be writing as much as possible.
I wish the book hadn't ended in a way because I absolutely LOVED reading about Winter.
I love just about everything this book has to offer and I can see myself reading it again in the future.
But in the end I enjoyed it.
Some places the story was slow paced, and I was turned off by the ignorant main character, Winter.
But overrall, Souljah did a fantastic job weaving a story about about the ghetto, the struggle, and the hustle of New York.
The characters all had interesting, distinctive, unique personalities, and there are many places in the story, you will find yourself relating to.
I also thought the ending was rushed.
Souljah introduced several characters and several conflicts, but didn't quite allow everything to fully resolve.
Regardless, this story is eye opening and completely honest.
