https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625198.The_Shiralee
In this book, he's a bit down on his luck, eking out his few pounds in cash, while he looks for a safe place to camp and work, feeding himself and the child with whatever comes his way.
(Warning for non-Australian readers: some of the slang used is very parochial, and will not be easily understood in other regions of the world.) At the same time as Macauley and Buster are traipsing round the countryside experiencing whatever comes their way, they are also dealing with more profound issues.
Niland uses Macauley's musings as a way to explore issues like mateship, domestic violence, alcohol abuse, child welfare, unemployment and poverty.
A shiralee is a swag, a burden, and in D’Arcy Niland’s novel, Macauley's is Buster, his four year old daughter.
In fact Macauley is harsh to the extreme, characteristics emphasized by his rough bush life and a barely suppressed temper.During the course of the narrative Macauley searches for work, catches up with old friends and gets into a number of fights, some within his daughter’s presence.
Macauley’s growing affection for his daughter is tested at the novel’s end, but the rough diamond that for me is one of my favourite characters in rural literature doesn’t disappoint.
I was surprised that I liked this book so much. It was first published in 1955 and it is a real Australian story. I have recently moved to the country and it was interesting to read how it was back then. I picked up some more Aussie slang and read it in two days!
Called one of Australia's great novels, The Shiralee is similar to Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men with the lead characters being a vagabond father and his daughter, the Shiralee or "baggage" of the title.
The latter makes this book a challenging but rewarding read.Set in Australia, The Shiralee tells the story of jim Macauley, who steals his daughter Buster from his unfaithful wife and hits the road with no idea what to do with her.
Trudging from dusty town to dusty town on the fridges of Australia, the headstrong and independent Macauley sees his feelings for Buster evolve from nuisance baggage to admired companion to daughter he can't live without.
The story of Mac and his daughter Buster is a really great tale.At first Mac takes Buster for revenge and she is a burden, but he learns to love and respect her.There is a warning that this is a book of its time so there are racist comments and offensive comments about gay people.
This may be offensive to some people but it does reflect the views of people at the time (however wrong they are to modern thinking).
I accepted this as such and I still felt it was a good story, but it may not be for others.
It truly captures the warm feeling of the land in Australia and was wonderful to be taken on a journey through so many New South Wales towns I have visited myself.
The main character Macauley is a hard character to like, though his thoughts are honest and he always "calls a spade a spade".
Tie myself down to one filly for life when I can have the pick of them from every paddock in Australia.Macauley finds himself travelling around trying to work and support himself and his little daughter Buster.
I never saw it, though I might have to try an dig up a copy from somewhere.
This book began my love affair with Australia.
Macauley is a wanderer.
He takes off for months at a time wandering the dusty interior trails of Australia.
Returning after a long road trip to find his wife in bed with another man as revenge he takes their only child and disappears into the outback.
The book deals with their developing relationship and Macauley's growing feeling of responsibility towards his 'Shiralee' (slang term for a burden or something heavy to carry.) Towards the end, I had a lot more sympathy for this man and understood more about his motivations, and really enjoyed the slow unassuming way the characters developed and changed.
For me this author, along with Patrick White, Ruth Park, Evan Green and Dorothy Hewett, were my jumping off point into Lawson and essentially Australian writing.
As a newly arrived academic 'temporary' visitor to Australia, other authors and playwrights were highlighted by Currency Press.
Since then not only has Australian authorship grown but so has my own knowledge of Australia and its many faces.
These books remain quintessentially and authoratatively, Australian.
Insightful and essential.
Many have now been 'made for tv' movies and serialised 2 or 3 part productions.Fit them into a later framework of Keneally, Courtenay, Corris and Di Morrissey.
A very good novelette about Macauley, a 35 year old wanderer and his relationship with his 4 - 5 year old daughter.
A quick read.
The descriptions of life in outback Australia in the 1950s are a pleasure to read.
Whilst he is a wanderer, he is a stable character with some very good friendships formed over the years.
His wife, Marge, only saw him for six months out of their five year marriage and ends up with another man.
Macauley takes their daughter initially out of spite but grows to wanting to bringing her up himself.
A truly great Australian novel.
An easy to read story. It was really a story about revenge. He took the child to spite his wife and then made her trudge around the country like a man. He certainly didn't deserve the devotion he got from her. Then again out of spite, after he had started to become attached to the child the wife took her even though she didn't even want her. What a crew, Social Services would have a field day. That little girl would surely grow up to be one tough woman.
I recommend this book as one to curl up with on an afternoon where you just want to be entertained, but not in an entirely unworthy way. A sweet Australian father-daughter story. If it's a not a hollywood movie, it could easily be one, as it has those sort of typical good/bad characters, and a brilliant setting in the Australian outback and peppered with small town characters, a court case, the occasional action scene and lots of heart.
Masterpiece.
Picked this up on one of my visits to Mr Bs. The fact it was a small local publisher appealed and the synopsis sounds light and warm an antidote to some of the more difficult reads I have had of late.
Despite this it is in the end a story of love and redemption and I can't praise it enough.It is I am told an Australian classic but was new to me as was much of landscape and a good bit of the language.
Thy joys of a small publisher who obviously loves books.
I enjoyed this book so much - it reminded me a lot of Cormac McCarthy's 'The Road', but less bleak, more hopeful, and more character-driven.
I'm so often irritated by depictions of kids in books and movies, but Buster is just the sweetest little nugget in the world.
She's so tough and gentle at the same time, and this book genuinely got me choked up a couple of times.
At times, this book is peak Men's Fiction - Macauley is very tough and cool and badass and gets in a lot of fights etc - but I feel like that made his character growth really satisfying, as opposed the book being like 'This Is Just How Dudes Be Sometimes'.I really loved this!
this book was much more to my liking after my previous attempt at reading classic australian literature.
To my suprise after finishing it, I found out that The Shiralee came out in 1955, but from reading it I suspected it to have been released in the late 80's.
Obviously this speaks to the timelessness of the story.
The language was fun and entertaining (but possibly sometimes confusing for non-australians) and the story was interesting and straight forward.
It was also nice to enjoy a classic novel about a father (attempting to) parent a daughter alone, which must have been quite different for its time.
This novel is in spirit much more so a short story.
Nonetheless, Macauley's story feels like a strange paradox: very much does indeed happen to him and his child; yet, I was left feeling as though not very much happened at all.
Interestingly, the whole novel, even when depicting the present, felt like a memory or thought.
Macauley's character is depicted with little growth; thus, even portrayal of his present feels like a memory, a present memory.
Chronology almost feels unimportant here; this is the depiction of a man who must now be a father, but remains the same man.
Not a children's book.This is the story of a masculine existence, including frank passages about sexual abstinence.The TV mini-series, now about 30 years old, focussed on the innocence and charm of the child Buster, and the challenges her father had in maintaining his both his itinerant manual-worker reality, and upholding his responsibilities to her.That's all in the novel - but the sense of loneliness and directionless life is more profoundly explored. The book is about the man, Macauley, and not his child Buster. I don't think there's been a better portrayal of the Aussie wayfarer.
As the father of a 4 year old girl, I found this novel particularly touching. It's a great story, with strong characters and some memorable scenes. Like Bukowski finding a heart, this novel found mine.
Brutal but heartwarming/breaking.
A favorite. Read and reread, again and again.
Would give this 10 stars if possible. Exquisitely written.
I would never have come across this 'lost' Australian Classic had it not been for my Mr B's reading subscription. I am so glad I did. It was a privilege to read.
Shiralee being an Aboriginal word translating to "burden", Macauley's 5 year old daughter, who just goes by the name of Buster, is the result of a brief marriage that ended the night Macauley came home to find his wife in bed with another man.
Macauley can also sometimes come off as harsh in the way he talks to Buster, but through his inner thoughts the reader sees he really does care about her deeply, and his decisions are always with her best interests in mind...
While I liked the bond between Macauley and Buster, and there are some pretty comedic moments throughout the novel, I felt myself getting periodically bored with the pace.
In the introduction written by Nick Bottomly (which I stopped reading because it seemed like it might have spoilers, not good!), he said to keep in mind the remark made near the beginning about McCauley not being a bad man.
Niland, like McCauley, was an itinerant worker, who settled down and then had a wife and children, so he clearly writes from experience.
In a modern context Buster would have been taken into care (or at least have a lot of intervention from the social services), and anyone would have condemned the parents, and the government too if nothing was done about her situation.
Oppressed by the “captivity” of a job in Sydney, roaring in his ears “with its terrible pandemonious laughter”, Macauley returns to his life on the country roads of New South Wales, leaving his wife alone for long periods with their child.
The wind whuddered across the waste, scattering the roly-poly, not unlike a lot of sheep making a stupid run for it…The rain came with a few big drops, a hesitant rehearsal; then they heard it roaring over the plain, and saw it coming, a wall of grey between sky and earth.”Recently revived, this novel reminds me of Steinbeck, and deserves to be better known.
Niland was a very good writer, as was his wife Ruth Park, whose Harp in the South trilogy, set in the slums of Sydney and partly based on what they observed from living there, is equally worth reading.Mac Macauley, the book’s main character, is walking the backroads of New South Wales, always on the look out for work, his four year old daughter Buster, the shiralee (burden) of the title, alongside or trailing behind.
I would go so far as to say that it’s one of the most beautiful books I’ve ever read, and it will most certainly be making my Favourites shelf on Goodreads.
Marvellous, and in many ways!In places this was poetry, poetry of words, the lovely modes of speech of NSW Australia in the 1940s (or whenever it was set, I wasn't entirely sure), of landscape, and of narrative.
It wasn't quite stream of consciousness, but in places nearly so, with a very effective absence of straightforward sentence structure.It does tell, as the publishers proudly say, the story of a man brought to a deeper level of self-knowledge by his young daughter (I hope that aspect of being a parent is commonplace).
I think I first read this when I was too young to really understand most of the story and character development, I just found it lying around out house somewhere and started reading because it seemed so intriguing, which it is.
Obviously racial prejudices are a component of Australia's history but I find it tolerable to read about here as opposed to other stories which make me want to jump into the book and punch people.
All in all a terrific read and a good length for the story arc, this one's a raw, poignant Aussie classic.
In this novel Niland showed that he had a real empathy with people and created believable situations and characters.
He described things succinctly and beautifully, and didn’t describe umpteen irrelevancies just for the sake of it.
The novel dates from a time when every white Aussie male was brought up to believe that Australia is the white man’s land.
There is an archetype that embodies this macho and racist White Australian ethos, and the main character of this novel is it.
So instead of empathising with the main character I found that the novel reminded me of my childhood alienation in the 1960s and 70s, and all the hurtful nonsense that went with it.
Quite simply one of the best books I have read for years.
Unputdownable, yet so delicious you want to savour it.Beautifully written.
Wonderfully descriptive, the story played like an HD film in my head.
The relationship between the four year old 'Shiralee' and her dad is so well done.
I felt the emotions as the story progressed.It is not predictable and I felt sad as I neared the end , not wanting to finish.The version I bought was in paper form from Me Bs book emporium Bath, they have republished it.
A bloody good read.Go buy one
