https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17660462-the-everything-store
But the fact remains that Jeff is one of the most important and successful entrepreneurs of our time.)Because of my admiration and liking for Jeff, I was a bit dismayed to see the book position me as an "adversary." While in some ways I am a competitor to Amazon, I think of myself more as a partner and friend than any kind of adversary!
But the book makes clear again and again how it really is a touchstone for Jeff.I have also worried that focus on the customer isn't enough - that companies that become as powerful as Amazon also need to understand the complete ecosystem in which they operate.
The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon is perfect for a specific group of people: job-seekers.If you're currently looking for work, pick up a copy of this book, as it does convey a very important message.
Then there's Bezos himself (who I used to liken to Steve Jobs, but smarter), the guy who reinvented the way we read and continues to drive a Civic despite having more money than God. Perhaps I harbored a secret fantasy or two about seducing him for an Amazon log-in, but...
Again, if you're job-searching, this is a great book to read for learning just why you should never work at Amazon.
Not so much because of the low prices, though I hardly object to them, as because of One-Click ordering, Amazon Prime, and the exceptionally good customer serviceSo, why do I carry with me like a massive weight on my shoulders a festering hatred for the company and for the pile-driving founder who has built it into the behemoth it is today?Read Brad Stone’s revealing book, The Everything Store, and you’ll understand perfectly why that weight on my shoulders is so heavy.Take Amazon’s employees, for example.
But it’s not just book publishers that Bezos treats with contempt.
استطاع بيزوس أن يقلب عدّة قطاعات رأسًا على عقب كقطاع النشر، استضافة المواقع وخدماتها، البيع بالتجزئة، الشحن والتوصيل.بعض الدروس \ الملاحظات:•	الصفة التي يمتاز بها بيزوس في نظري: قدرته على سرعة فهم المحرّكات الرئيسة للقطاعات التجارية وإعادة ابتكارها.•	مبدأ بيزوس المحوري هو تحويل كل دولار من المصاريف "الزايدة" –مثل التسويق- إلى تحسين الخدمة وتجربة المستخدم.
أمازون تسمح لقطاع معين البيع على موقعه، لكن بعد فترة بسيطة من تحليل المنتج وتصرف العملاء، يقوم هو بطرح نفس المنتج بسعر أقل ويقتل البائعين على موقعه.•	هذه ظاهرة جيدة للمستفيد \ العميل...
Amazon's selection certainly wowed me, and there were times that I did want a new book instead of one with a faded cover and cracked spine.
In shopping online, Amazon's prices, selection, and convenience are unbeatable.So, given my long history with Amazon, I really loved the first half of this book.
(Seriously, I recently bought some gift cards for a family member from another site and was so surprised that I couldn't choose the date of delivery of an e-mail gift card!) Of course even in those early days of Amazon, when they were the underdogs working tirelessly in the name of the consumer experience, there was some ugliness.
I really want to read this.
Understanding amazon's founder, Jeff Bezos, would appear to be a good place to start; a thought reinforced in this review from LinkedIn, which prompted my putting this on the TBR pile.Frankly, he sounds like every other tech start-up entrepreneur: a world-class douche, with zero people skills and no concept of the value or importance of community or collaboration.
This is not an attack - read the review for yourself; I'm just paraphrasing.
And it's being played out in the current situation on goodreads as its community is being dismantled in favour of commercial, over social, goals.Well.
That to me sums this book up.Given recent events, aka Hachette-Amazon, it’s required reading for anyone involved in the publishing industry.
I think Amazon customers should also read it.Also, I suggest reading the reviews written by some of the people mentioned in the book, including Mr. Bezos wife.
It lays out a business template of someone driven to success.My take on Bezos from this book (which might totally be wrong, I’m sure his wife knows him better): he wants to win.
It’s not about making money (although I’m sure he doesn’t complain) but about winning.
Особено тези, които обещават да ми разкажат едновременно за два мои любими и на пръв поглед почти несъвместими свята – на технологичните компании и на книгоиздаването, каквато се оказа „Джеф Безос и векът на Amazon“.
Е, Безос перфектно пасва на психологическия профил на този технологичен клуб, само че не е толкова популярен, нито особено обичан.Цялото ревю: http://azcheta.com/jef-bezos-i-vekat-...
The cover of this book is actually a pretty good visual summary of what you find inside: a great look at Amazon and Jeff Bezos but with the real man (frustratingly) only coming through in part.
Also, I found the book jumped around a lot so I'd sometimes wonder which year I was in as I read a story and would have to flip back to figure it out.
Reading about the huge goals the Amazon team set themselves and how they failed and overcame failure or learned from it to succeed elsewhere reminded you of how far the company has come.I think anyone reading this will come away with a list of ideas to explore/start practicing.
If you are a customer, you can count on an advocate with an obsession for customer service and getting the lowest prices anywhere.Like today’s political environment, my impression of Amazon (no longer Amazon.com) is that it is polarized—people either love or hate the company.
I like the low prices and I respect their passion for customer service.
As a result, it becomes a vicious cycle with Amazon essentially incorporating the Borg mentality that all (competitors) will be assimilated—two of my favorite companies among them, Audible and Goodreads.
Full disclosure: As a former Audible and Amazon investor, I have benefited both financially and from a customer service perspective from these companies.
This is the story of Amazon.com and how it became a ~$500B company.
The book is fun and engaging to read.
The chapters focus on painting a picture of Jeff Bezos and his philosophy, and the various adversities that the company has faced over its 20 years of existence.
The other 50% is a genuinely fun read about Amazon's beginnings, struggles, and its now-sprawling empire from a high-level business perspective.
Would recommend to anyone interested in the history of internet and the dot com bubble and general high-level business strategy grounded in the examples from Amazon's history.
The Everything Store perfectly encapsulates the culture that Jeff Bezos wanted and the journey through some of the brightest innovations all derived from the Amazon Mission: be earth's most customer-centric company; to build a place where people can come to find and discover anything they might want to buy online.
Brad Stone could not have been more precise in painting the picture of Amazon's journey and guiding light while giving readers a framework for what the future holds for Bezos and the entire Amazon ecosystem.
I'd rather pay a few bucks extra for my books but know I'm supporting an independent seller who, hopefully, treats his or her employees like individuals with feelings.The problem in 2018 is that we're very much living in Amazon's world.
Is resistance futile then?What each and every one of us can do is protest the way Amazon treats its employees and how it fails to pay many of those that work in its fulfillment centers a living wage.
Its also much easier to be in meetings and recollect the times where someone gets angry and not the times where praise is given.My biggest concern is that I have first-hand knowledge of many of the episodes in the book (high school, original web site, 9/11, earthquake, A9, Manber/Holden, Kindle, Netflix).
That, of course, taints my view of the book as a whole, because I have to assume that 20% of the stuff I don't have personal knowledge of is also incorrect.That said, I would still recommend the book (and especially the picture of Jeff in High School!)
very fast read - having lived many of the situations.
i don't think the portrayal of jeff was near balanced enough.
he is relentless in his customer obsession and that's at the cornerstone of everything.
i have been in uncomfortable meetings with him.
but, i cannot hoestly say that i have ever been in unfair meetings with him.
when i did things or led things that made that vein on his forhead pop out, in the end, it was pretty apparent in hindsight (for me) that i'd amde a mistake.
i am a huge fan of Jeff's and of Amazon.
The watchwords were discipline, efficiency, and eliminating waste.When both teams met for the first time, Bezos made a big show of keeping one chair open at the conference-room table, “for the customer,” he explained.Jeff slammed his hand on the table and said, ‘That is not how an owner thinks!'Amazon executives reasoned that day that they had the Internet’s most authoritative product catalog and that they should exploit it.
In an informal way—as if the company didn’t quite know the insight around primitives was an extraordinary one—Amazon then started building teams to develop the services described on that list.investment officer at Legg Mason Capital Management and a major Amazon shareholder, asked Bezos at the time about the profitability prospects for AWS.
Неплохая книга про Амазон, тема раскрыта. Особых каких-то бизнес идей не найдено.
:)Anyway, coming to the genre itself, it is part of the reading of this genre that along with the more esoteric reading of such books to understand society, culture, etc., the more relevant reading is to look for "mantras of success", for habits that will lead to success, for methods that will work, for any superstitious tic that might just bring about the next big thing.But one common thread I have been able to tease out from readings about the colossally successful is that all of them are obsessive about at least one of the following aspects:1.
Over the last 7 to 8 years where Amazon and its rivals have made huge inroads into India, there has been a turnaround to this mentality wherein I now have folks from the same demographic slice now asking me (or people of my group who actively use online commerce) to order things for them.
Brad Stone’s book covers the time from Amazon’s inception in a minuscule office in the US to the global behemoth it is today.As with all founder led firms, the story of Amazon is inseparable from Jeff Bezos and his indomitable determination.
The author tracked down Bezos's birth father--the guy who knocked up Bezos's mom when they were both teenagers and like many teenage fathers tried his best to stick around before leaving out of fear and a sense of inadequacy--who had no fucking idea his son was one of the richest men in the country.
So characterizations of Amazon and its business practices aside, I don't fucking blame Jeff Bezos for trying to destroy this book, its author, and its publisher.
But contrary to the majority of reviews and Bezos's own perception of the book, it actually made me more sympathetic to Amazon.com and Jeff Bezos than before I read it.
I loved it.I think Jeff is one of the most capable and effective founders ever, and I think the Amazon juggernaut is still in its early stages.
I particularly found the more personal stories around Bezos to be fascinating and thoroughly enjoyed learning more about the brilliant man.Having been an Amazon fan girl and ebook lover since the Kindle 2 was released, this book brought my respect for Bezos and Amazon's journey to a whole new level.
~Jeff Bezos-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: Amazon's culture has been engineered to cater obsessively to its customers.
The company's loyal patrons enjoy the fruits of that focus every time they interact with it.
It was great that thanks to Bezos, the book acknowledged the existence of narrative bias in all such writings and came out less "worshipy" than Vance's Musk biography. But then this book was more about Amazon than Bezos himself, so probably unfair to compare. Amazon did not come off as a fun or nice place to work.
I read  The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon  on the way home from San Jose, and really enjoyed it.I was a bit skeptical about this book, as there have been accusations from MacKenzie Bezos (Jeff's wife) and others that the book contains numerous factual inaccuracies. The edition I read appears to have corrected some of these inaccuracies (e.g., MacKenzie objected to the assertion that Bezos read Remains of the Day before deciding to leave D.E. Shaw to start Amazon in order to
In at least this sense, Amazon really is customer-centric: it believes that customers always want lower prices and greater selection, and whoever gets in the way of Amazon accomplishing these goals for its customers should be rightfully crushed.In one key passage, Stone notes that the idea that in a business negotiation both sides should emerge happy is deeply "un-Amazon." Amazon does not care about its business partners and suppliers and it must emerge as the winner in any negotiation because only by winning can it pass on the savings to customers in the form of lower prices.
Many a times it has been remarked by the doyens of the industry who have worked in Amazon that it is a titan of a company with the energy of a startup- Innovating and taking risk all the time.The founder, Mr. Bezos himself is a book connoisseur and it was least amusing that he started his retail business through book-selling.
Later a pattern was seen that this laying off was done exactly when the bonus, promotion or wage hike of the employee was a due.2) Several brutal wisdom nuggets were dropped by Bezos all the time to his team of any division, popularly known as Jeffisms in the work place, and as far as results were concerned, they followed a policy of "No Mercy".
Трябва да се работи умно, усилено и дълго: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/j...Заглавието на текста е един от прочутите “джефизми” – в същността си проповядва безконечен и отдаден труд в името на компанията и поставяне на на абсолютно всичко – живота например – на заден план.
Това разбраха големите играчи в световното книгоиздаване по трудния начин, но далеч не са само те – в “Джеф Безос и векът на Амазон” на Брад Стоун са описани достатъчно примери на доста грозни практики, които се прилагат в името на мантрата “за клиента”, но всъщност за градежа на империята на Безос.Издателска Къща "Жануа'98"http://knigolandia.info/book-review/j...
This is good if you're (like me) are used to the Jeff Bezos you saw in product launches and interviews; smart, awkward, and nerdy.
Sometimes it just jumps in the timeline of a single story to tell a little story.The focus of the book is Bezos, and other characters are mostly shallow and not explored very well unless the story requires it.After reading this book, I don't think I'll ever consider working for Amazon.
Now, I'm more likely to think: that guy is just trying to win.Balance is good, and having one store for everything is not.
This was an illuminating look at the growth of Amazon - I have too many highlights to count!
It seems like Brad Stone wrote the best, most accurate book he could, given the fact that he couldn't interview Bezos himself.
Even if a few of the early facts are wrong, like MacKenzie Bezos says in her Amazon review, I still feel like I got a picture of the beginnings and early culture of Amazon, and how that developed into the culture and structure that we exist in today.
I had no idea that eBay was considered Amazon's greatest rival (or rather, the dominant player in the field) in the early 2000s.
Overall I did enjoy this book.
It paints a more detailed picture of Amazon, it's people, and the challenges it faced (with some mentions of its current and future issues) than any other book.
If you're going to read one book about Amazon, I would probably recommend this one over One Click Jeff Bezos and the Rise of Amazon.com, mainly because Stone paints a much bigger picture here than Brandt does in One Click.
But, the only details you really need to know about Amazon are: it's huge, it's amazing, and it's mean - it's a lean, mean, selling machine!
I’ve learned that amazon's marketing strategy is its pricing strategy which is every day lower prices, aldo that they don't profit by selling things, but by helping customers to make better purchase decisions.
Those are experiences that I have as a customer of AWS, and its was a great experience to learn more about the culture of this awesome company.Steve Jobs interests defined Apple strategy (music/iTunes) as well as Jeff Bezzos interests defined Amazon strategy (books/Kindle).Steve loved music as Jeff loves books.
Maybe thats a clue to understand something about the influence of the personality of CEO in a company.Read it if you wanna learn more about amazon and its founder.
This is the best book about Amazon/Jeff on the market (of 2 or 3 others).
As a current employee, much of what's inside rings true.
My only criticism is that the frenetic back and forth in time within each chapter was a bit disorienting (though arguably similar to the work environment here).
I also agree with Jeff when he says "it's too early to reflect." This book takes you to the seventh inning in a close game that could suddenly turn either way.
Perhaps Jeff will.
After he retires at 107 and needs to pass the time on Mars
