https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218463.The_World_Of_Ptavvs
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Pak: "The World or Ptavvs" by Larry Niven(Original Review, 1980-08-25)In response to the idea that perhaps the Pak were actually tnuctip, I think it very unlikely. The Pak date back about 2.5 Million years, while, according to “The World or Ptavvs”, the 'Sea statue' (Kzanol, last of the Thrint [slaver] race) dates back about 2 Billion years. Also according to World or Ptavvs, the tnuctip were wiped out in the war with the Thrints some 2*10^9 years ago.
World of Ptavvs was Niven's first novel, and is set in his Known Space universe. I believe he introduced several of his famous alien species in this one, many of whom are unapologetically more interesting than the humans with whom they interact. It first appeared over fifty years ago, but I believe it's still a good hard-sf story, fast paced and packed with mind-expanding concepts.
Lots of space travel, hi-tech gadgets, aliens, and a life and death plot...
Niven's ideas on telepathy and mind-powers are particularly interesting.
So an alien creature that once enslaved the galaxy is off to capture a device that will let it do so again and regardless of who else might be injured or the possible political and military repercussions, you DON'T try to immediately NUKE IT?5.
You finally capture said alien which has been incapacitated, for now; but rather than make sure it can possibly become a threat again, you keep the creature in stasis in a museum?
Niven is one of the real reliable science-heavy sci-fi writers--always exploring what might be legitimately possible.
You burn the engines as hard as you can until halfway, but then you have to flip the ship around and burn them just as hard the other way, or you'll just keep sliding on out of the solar system entirely.
(This is true of far too many sci-fi writers.)The basic driving idea here isn't hard science, but it's still a neat bit of nuts-and-bolts questioning.
Women are better represented from his second novel onwards.I enjoy reading about the thrintun, I think because they're basically so human, despite being alien monsters.
Kzanol has the body of an alien monster and the mind of a human slob; but, in describing him from his own point of view, Niven actually makes us feel sympathy at times for this unlovable character.The story of World of Ptavvs falls roughly into two halves: the first half on Earth and the second half in the outer reaches of the solar system.
World of Ptaavs was Larry Niven's first novel, published in 1966, and with its 2106 setting it is one of the first stories chronologically in the Known Space canon.
It is clearly a weak work, and offers only hints of the wonderful ideas that Niven was to write about only a year later.The novel begins two billion years before the present with the alien Kzanol, a member of the Thrintun race.
This race had the ability to control others telepathically and are the Slavers mentioned in later Known Space works.
Check out World of Ptaavs only if you want light shed on certain elements of the Known Space series.
"World of Ptavvs? Oh, that's one of the good ones, before he started co-authoring boring crap with Jerry Pournelle. So, there's this alien with mind-control powers who's been frozen in stasis at the bottom of the sea for, you know, a zillion years since his ship crashed... What? sure, another Margharita would be great. Ah, so of course the alien wakes up, and he takes over the mind of this human and escapes and... oh, thanks! Cheers. Now where was I? Had I got to the bit where they set Pluto on fire? Sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself here..."
This was Niven's first novel, and I was not expecting too much. I was wrong. Read this book! You won't regret it.
I'm interested in how Niven deals with expository since his alien creatures and cultures are indeed very alien.
I'm also interested in how he deals with explaining the aspects of every day human life that are futuristic and so different from ours.
Great little yarn, not exactly a classic of science fiction but a really good little book.
Great ending, which saves a hopeless situation with such elegant simplicity that I was surprised and happy that the characters survived.
Stylistically, I think I learned a lot about expository, for instance, one way to explain alien cultures is to have a telepathic human sort through an alien's memories.
The World of Ptavvs concerns the re-awakening from stasis of an ancient alien who has the power of mind control, so when a human psychic tries to use a mind-to-mind contact machine to communicate it all goes a bit wrong.
The alien escapes from stasis and goes on a chase across the solar system looking for something he left in his other stasis suit.
That something, if he finds it, would spell enslavement for the population of earth.Early Niven like this is big on ideas, big on science, full of plot and not so great with characters or the "human" side of the story.
This is a fun, pulpy scifi read. Lots of silliness and adventure with a dash of science thrown in. As a bonus there are references to Niven's other material and other scifi of the era. And it'll make you think, but only a little bit. Overall a really fun read.
I so shouldn't give this a 5, quite, but I love the story and fictional-universe history. So so fun.Writing alone should stop it from being a 5, but screw it.
After reading a few of the Ringworld books, I'm trying to catch up on Niven's "Known Space" books. This one was okay, but not great.
Pretty good. I haven't read a lot of Niven's stuff though.
and boy was it a great reveal for me, having read much of the far-future, Ringworld-onward books, and hearing oh so much about the fabled and mysterious "Slaver" society with their fascinating technology, like, of course, the infamous "Slaver stasis fields"...
And of course, poor little Pluto, which had a really fantastic idea behind its description, but of course, all too false.BUT you can hardly fault a Sci-Fi writer in the 60's when they're describing celestial bodies that have at that point only been seen with freaking ground-based telescopes!...
Niven, Larry.
World of the Ptavvs.
Orbit, 2000.World of the Ptavvs is a landmark book in the science fiction genre because it is the first novel set in Niven’s Known Space universe.
If you accept a few basic genre tropes, such as telepathy and interstellar civilizations, the science holds up well.
The story is engaging, Niven puts us in the minds of a marooned alien and of Larry Greenberg, the human character who is under its control.
The novel looks forward to the Expanse series in that it creates a believable political tension between Earth and an independent nation based in the asteroid belt.
This is a fun story by a guy who began writing SF only a few years before I started reading it. The writing style feels modern to me, unlike the slightly earlier Reefs of Space by classic writers of one earlier generation, Fred Pohl and Jack Williamson. The science technology stuff is amusing in its wild advances and total stops in development compared to the half century since publication and my speculation as to the next century until it's setting. In this novel people certainly find expensive ways to do things.
Niven again. One of the three pre-Ringworld books that give you a lot of background information about the Known Space. This was a solid scifi story. I don't know why but it felt a bit confusing at times but fun to read none the less. And anyway this has the trade mark Niven humor and fluent story telling. Not a superb book as such but gives a lot of information about the Known Space.I highly recommend reading this if you are going to read the Ringworld series.
third read - December 1989 - just felt like reading some Nivensecond read - August 1982 - while in grad schoolfirst read - January 1976 - while college student
It's fun watching Known Space get built from the beginning(ish).
I thought it tied together a lot of Known Space' history and background while telling a pretty cool story. I haven't read it for years but I'm looking for a copy on ebook...hence the review. :)
Don’t write a book where the main characters are named Larry, Lloyd, Lit, Luke, and Lew. That’s just excessive.
started: 2017-03-05.Mar.Sun 15:55:20finished: 2017-03-08.Mar.Wed 14:11:55 duration: 6h:53mnarrated by: Andy Caploe
Maybe 2.5 if I am being generous but for the most part I did not enjoy it.
I had this one from one of our many book Fair runs and and after reading 'Protectors" figured I should knock this one out while some of the Known Space info was still fresh.
On the other hand it made for a pretty good adventure, like the basic idea could be pasted into a D&D setting or even in a more RL setting and it'd make for some interesting interplay between characters.
(hide spoiler)].Otherwise, he tries to put the Science in science fiction and you either like that or you don't.
I'm four starring it and saying outright if you don't like Niven or don't want to read science fiction that's dated it's really not recommended then.
They release the alien, Kzanol, a thrintun, who crash-landed on Earth about two billion years ago.
Larry Greenburg, a telepath, is taken over by Kzanol's mind.
Both of them travel to Neptune to locate a device Kzanol had left there (Larry still thinking he is Kzanol).
Humans and dolphins can now communicate with one another, which I thought was a really fun idea.
It's even suggested that maybe dolphins will travel into space.
However, there's not much elaborated on the dolphins, and maybe such a plotline would have been too ridiculous.
The beginning in which Kzanol imprints his mind on Larry is really confusing.Fortunately, it is short.
Because I am a Niven fan and Ringworld is my favourite book, and because I'm a writer, I wanted to see Larry's first published book.
I would give it a 3.5 if i could.This is essentially a short story.
The first half of the book is engaging and had me on the edge of my seat.
The second half, not so much.
For a short story, this is one of the best I've ever read.
If judged as a novel, i wouldn't praise it so highly.Highly recommended for fans of retro science fiction.
He is totally obsessed with hypnotism, to an embarrassing extent.
Some mind-controlling alien has killed and maimed hundreds and caused hundreds of millions of dollars in property damage but we're not going to, I don't know, kill him with overwhelming military force or anything like that.
Nah, we'll send two dudes who don't know what they're doing instead.
Totally.
Way better for all of humanity to be enslaved.And when we catch said alien let's just put him in a stasis field and drop it in a museum so that anyone can steal him and turn it off and loose him again.
While I _LOVE_ this author and his universe, I recently re-read this novel and found it a bit "sub-par" compared to many of his other works.
It's an OK read and goes pretty fast, but just a bit more clunky than a lot of his other works.
Turns out to have been one of his first...
Mind you _I_ would have been very pleased with myself if I'd turned this out, but he's just got a lot of other books that are better.So it's better than a lot of other novels out there (the "3 star" rating isn't a "bad thing", just means "meh...").

