https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152642.The_River_Between
I imagine being a woman in the beautiful landscape of colonial Kenya as having to choose between Scylla and Charybdis, as being torn between ancient rites and Christian missionaries - neither of them offering any kind of individual choice and development for a woman.As a woman, you are stuck between quite similar, yet opposing male monsters of rigid patriarchal rituals, fighting each other with religious salvation vocabulary and with you as a prize.
The protagonist, Waiyaki, is caught between his destiny as the direct descendant of an African seer who supposedly foresaw the arrival of the white man, a “people with clothes like butterflies,” and who must therefore lead the village, as well as being a young man who obtained education from the missionaries, and is in love with Nyambura, the Christian daughter of Joshua, the Kikuyu pastor.I liked the book a lot.
Like African society in general, I found the story to have lots of patriarchal elements.
الكاتب الكيني نجوجي واثيونجو بدأ الكتابة عام 1964 باللغة الانجليزيةوفي السبعينيات بدأ يكتب بلغته الأ
A subtle and rhythmic book on the impact of colonialism in a Kenyan people.
This focuses on the clash of interests and views between a tribes' past traditions, and the missionary tradition of Christianity.
One would first attempt to sympathize with the culture that is under attack, but then you realize that a key element of that culture is female circumcision.
As such, women are a main discussion poinnt of this book, but here they have very little agency.You grow accustomed to the writing style as the book progresses; the last two chapters (view spoiler)[on Waiyaki's uncertain fate (hide spoiler)] are superb.
The lack of communication between father and son is gently critiqued in Waiyaki’s bafflement.The issue of circumcision, a rite of passage for both boys and girls in the Gikuyu ‘tribe’ is central to the conflict between Gikuyu tradition and colonial Christianity.
Waiyaki reflects that some of the ideas of the Christians are attractive or unobjectionable, but that the Christians’ mistake is to attempt to take away the ‘tribe’’s traditions without giving them anything valueable in return; circumcision is not important as a physical change but an an internal, spiritual change.
I read this novel because I thought Ngugi would win the Nobel Prize today, but he did not.
In any event, I’m glad I read it, because it has been very long since I read his work (since reading A Grain of Wheat in high school, not long after it was published).I was struck by the rhythm not of Ngugi’s prose, but of his telling of the story, the repetitions, hesitations, thought processes, excitements, rememberings, and fears.
The writing itself is not of much interest.
But it is the rhythm of the telling that gives the novel its power.
رواية جيدة وهي التجارب القليلة التي أخوضها مع الأدب الأفريقي.. أفريقيا حيث المشاكل التي لا تنتهي والحروب التي تُزهق فيها الأرواح بسبب وبغير سبب ، يحكي الكاتب هنا عن فترة حرجة من تاريخ كينيا حيث المشاكل القبيلة بسبب الدين الجديد ومعارك الجيل الجديد للدخول في التعليم وبدأ مرحلة جديدة..القصة تبدو كمزيج من الخرافات القبيلة مع روح تلك الحقبة الأليمة من تاريخ البلاد.. حاول أن يرسم صورة النهر كفاصل بين عهدين كلاهما مر ، وسطر فيها مشاهد مؤلمة حيث لابد أن الإنسان هو الطرف الأول والأخير من تلك المأساة المظلمة..
The focus of the battle is between the Kenyans rather than the invaders, reminiscent of how in the diaspora the frustration of communities often gets turned on to itself rather than the wider system that creates and sustains those kind of divisions.
An important read for black Americans because it gives a glimpse of life, beliefs and cultural practices of Africans before colonization.
As I continue to read books from different countries in Africa and around the diaspora, the more I am aware of how writing styles, story lines and emphases are indeed a reflection of those different cultures and realities.
Thiong'o es uno de los favoritos para ganar el Premio Nobel, según las casas de apuestas, tiene un estilo muy claro y sencillo pero que me transmite mucho (en ese sentido me ha recordado a Hemingway).
Así que rapidamente me he sentido como si yo formara parte de la tribu kikuyu, no como si la observara desde fuera, y he notado la frustración que causa un problema que no se puede resolver.
Quizá lo peor sea la historia de amor a lo Romeo y Julieta que es muy tópica y está muy vista pero tampoco me ha desagradado esto, si la novela llega a tener un final mas memorable le doy las cinco estrellas.
Apparently simple but deeply complex and lyrically beautiful story set in colonial Kenya.
A young man from the Kikuyu people who seems to be destined to be its leader, comes to realise that what is being presented to him as a choice between resisting colonial pillage and disenfranchisement, and exposing his people to new knowledge and thinking, is actually a false one.
It’s a novella so rather than taking time to develop characters, the focus is much more on presenting a set of complex themes and seeing how they interlock.
But if you think you know where it’s going, the ending surprises you...
As missionaries settle in the land and establish Christian ideals, the rifts between two Kikuyu communities, one Christian and one traditional, is explored through the theme of clitoridectomy.Ngugi describes the act of female circumsion as ‘an important ritual to the tribe’ that kept ‘people together, bound the tribe’, it was ‘the core of the social structure’.
In the book Ngugi gives little voice to this difficult female position, instead clitoridectomy becomes a tool central to traditional Kikuyu nationalism.
When the Christian missionaries arrive at an African region the local tribes are threatened by this swiping force that is claiming their young and lands while dubbing their past, customs and social traditions evil.It's a battle between the past and the future, tradition and evolution but above it all it's a battle of men and all their fears and vises and ambitions.It depicts clearly how religion is always tied to politics and it’s a testimony to how vital traditions and customs are to a society.There's a Greek song that says "[…] by fire and knife this world moves forward" and that's exactly what happens to the Makuyu people and poor Waiyaki who dreamed ofeducation for unity.
Απ'τη μια έχουμε τις παραδόσεις της φυλής του (όπως οι βίαιες περιτομές σε άντρες κ γυναίκες) κι απ'την άλλη το δυτικό πολιτισμό που προσπαθεί να επιβληθεί με το ζόρι, όχι φυσικά για ανθρωπιστικούς λόγους αλλά για οικονομικούς.
Σε γενικές γραμμές, το βιβλίο είναι ένα κείμενο ιδεών, όχι απαραίτητα κάποιου έμπειρου στοχαστή, αλλά ενός αρκετά ικανού συγγραφέα να μεταφέρει τις (κάθε είδους) συγκρούσεις του τόπου του.
Σε γενικές γραμμές, αν κ ο Thiong'o παραγίνεται διδακτικός, ο αναγνώστης καταλαβαίνει αρκετά πράγματα για την Κένυα κ τα εγκλήματα των αποικιοκρατών, τα οποία φυσικά δεν έπαψαν να επηρρεάζουν την πορεία της χώρας μέχρι σήμερα.
Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o once wrote in English, but he changed to writing in his native language, Gikuyu.
There is conflict between the old generation and the youth, the traditional brand of education and the education of the white man.
Waiyaki who is a teacher and a good man of balanced principles is caught in the middle, and he knows he must keep his balance on the head of the needle in the between the mission education he received by the Europeans and his loyalty to his village and his father's belief in his destiny as savior of their tribe from the world of the invader and those who are traitors.
Many people of Kenya didn’t want to change.In the book, it all comes down to the issue of circumcision.
So they care as much as the tribes about people, especially women, being respectable.
What if a girl feels she has to be circumcised because she wants to belong to the group, and become a woman, and for that she thinks that circumcision is necessary?
It is difficult to convince people of different perspectives, but it is probably the only way to create a lasting agreement that works.The Christian missionaries wanted the tribes to live like them.
Cele două comunități Kikuyu au aceeași origine, dar sunt despărțite nu numai de valea râului Honia, ci și de o veche rivalitate pentru supremație: africanii de pe coama Kameno își atribuie puterea spirituală și conducerea pe baza legendelor moștenite de la părinții din vechime ai tribului.Nici măcar misionarii creștini care s-au stabilit în vecinătate nu se aventurează pe cărările întortocheate ce duc la așezările Kikuyu, dar influența lor reușește să pătrundă în interior prin câțiva membri ai tribului pe care i-au convertit la creștinism.
Copiii celor convertiți sunt prinși între respectarea a două datorii - cea față de părinți și cea față de trib, iar multe femei ”învață” și acceptă noua religie din supunere față de bărbat.Am mai avut o tentativă de a citi Râul care ne desparte, dar primele pagini pur și simplu nu m-au prins.
Recently a new friend from Nairobi said she considers Ngugi Wa Thiong'o the most authentic writer of Africa, and this is in fact her second choice novel among his works.
From my own perspective, I had simply never considered the other side of the questions involving the importance of tradition in general and of ritual circumcision (male and female) more specifically.
I closed the book in the end with more questions than answers, which I consider valuable.
I'd read Chinua Achebe's 'Things Fall Apart' a year or so ago, and was pleased to see he introduced this edition of 'The River Between.' His perspective added another important dimension to my experience of this work.
His counterpart is Joshua, a man zealous for his Christian God and now blind to his cultural traditions.The tension between these two men is bad enough but it is heightened considerably by the love shared between Waiyaki and Joshua’s daughter.
I was glad this was a short novel because I don’t think I could have bared much more.
It was intensely powerful.Novels that chart the changes that cultures in this world have gone through in a generation or two are in themselves historical documents of the highest importance.
I was very glad to hear Wikipedia say that this is a set text in Kenyan schools.
The challenge of cultural development is still relevant today, and this book is a good start in initiating discussion as to how this conundrum can be resolved.The book presents the problem in the form of two villages on opposite sides of a river in the Central Highlands of Kenya, one clinging to tradition, and the other transformed by the acceptance of the missionaries' set of values.One of the most controversial arguments, the issue of female circumcision, is handled in a way that invites thoughtful debate rather than outright condemnation.
The title, The River Between, could be interpreted to mean that perhaps the answer lies somewhere in the middle.
The novel effectively uses imagery of shedding blood to point to a human longing for redemption, but characters struggle with different visions of where that redemption will come from.
Or will it come by destroying the one man who seeks to unite the traditional and newly-converted Christian factions within the Gikuyu tribe?As a schoolteacher myself, I was drawn to the struggles of the character known as "The Teacher." However, I was left wanting more insight into the content and direction of the teaching at the schools he founded, since he essentially equated education with salvation.
Excellent read. I recommend this excellent book. Fabulous and excellent.
I LUV WAIYAKI
The River Between: A young strong man named Waiyaki (Wai- I shorten their names so I could remember them easier) who learns his heritage from his father Chege.
Christianity is brought to Africa and has split the two village tribes led by Wai's father Chege and Joshua, Nyam's father.Wai tackles the responsibility of mending the tribes affected by the Christianity, the white man, and traditions of old tribal practices by the way of education and the building of schools.
https://maryokekereviews.blogspot.com...
Afrika'dan da bir edebiyat çıktığını tüm dünyaya gösteren en önemli yazarlardan olan Thiongo, kesinlikle alışılmışın dışında bir dünya ve bakış açısı sunuyor bize.Kenya kabilelerinden iki tanesinin Beyaz Adam'larla tanışmasını ve bir kesimin görece yozlaşıp, diğer kesimin de geleneklerinden yana fanatikleşmesini ve bunların çatışmalarını ele alan kitap; tartışmalı savlarla dolu.
Bu yüzden kitabı Jung'un 'Keşfedilmemiş Benlik' isimli çalışması ışığında okumak çok daha iyi anlaşılmasını sağlayacaktır diye düşünüyorum.
Afrika edebiyatından daha önce Chinua Achebe'yi okumuştum.
Bunları araştırmak ve anlayabilmek için çok iyi çıkış noktaları sunuyorlar.
Pagan Afrikalıları, Hristiyanlık ve İslamiyet'e tabii olmadan öncesinde izleyebilmek için çok değerli olduklarını düşünüyorum bu tarz kitapların.
”Râul care ne desparte” este o carte care cuprinde și surprinde, între copertele sale, un univers aparte aflat la granița dintre tradiție și modern.
Grație stilului simplu, clar, fără artificii, al propozițiilor și frazelor scurte, al dialogurilor și portretizărilor succinte, cuvintele capătă putere, schimbă destine, stârnește revolte, dragoste și ură.
Spusă din perspectiva unui narator omniscient (pe alocuri parțial omniscient, lăsând spații libere de completat de către cititori), povestea este străbătută de realism (care se metamorfozează în frânturi de realism magic atunci când tradițiile străvechi tribale intră în scenă) și te transportă, prin intermediul personajelor sale principale, într-o societate în care armonia este tulburată, iar oamenii sunt obligați să aleagă taberele din care fac parte.
(continuarea cronicii: http://bookaholic.ro/raul-care-ne-des...)
- Yearning. Yearning. Was life all a yearning and no satisfaction?
I feel like the author didn't want to write anymore so just ended it there
Lo maravilloso de la historia es el punto de vista desde el pueblo keniano, que si bien desde fuera podemos juzgar la barbarie de sus tradiciones, acaso para ellos la llegada del "hombre blanco", y con ellos el cristianismo, fue un movimiento tumultuoso, que les desconcertó y desoriento.
Al final pueblos enemistados por escoger entre una creencia y otra, entre un liderazgo y otro, entre unos intereses y otros, entre una ignorancia y otra.
La obra no va solo de lo que son las tradiciones, sino de cómo atrocidades se pueden aceptar como necesarias, incluso divinas, tanto para un pueblo como el de Kenya, como para los conquistadores ingleses y para el mundo.
This novel which exposes the conflicts that arise within an African tribe as they face the incroaching influence of white colonial forces, the first Ngugi wa Thiong’o wrote, is a powerful tale of remarkable depth and complexity.
There is a definite emphasis on duality and symbolism, but the grey areas, the internal conflicts and sense of alienation within the main character, Waiyaki speak no only to the community power struggles and challenges, but to the kind of doubts and anxieties individuals face in a wide range of situations whenever they are trying to be true to their convictions against the traditions and norms of their families, communities or social expectations.
