https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2072332.The_Rose_and_the_Yew_Tree
Lord, the skill and unnerving perception of Christie.I love the choice she makes in a setting, how she unashamedly places a story in the midst of a small village with no pretence to exoticism or grandeur and then proceeds to ruthlessly delineate and unpack and thoroughly dissect the characters with a psychological insight that sometimes leaves me breathless and overwhelmed, struggling to contain so much intricacy of characterisation in my head.And her clever use of symbolism, how unusual that central phrase of the novel is to me removed from her by the distance of space and time.
British politics, unhappy women, and dreaming of marrying your cousin. Yep, sounds like a great read. I have now read 3 of the 6 novels Agatha Christie wrote under the pseudonym Mary Westmacott. But unlike her mystery stories, I'm pretty sure I will never have a desire to re-read any of these. These are marketed as romance, but I find them too filled with depressing people with unredeeming qualities. Even the narrator here, Hugh Norreys, leaves something to be desired.
I had to abandon this because it was so grim. I think the narrator was suffering from clinical depression. There was a kind of emotional "greyness" in all of the events and people he described. He didn't seem to like anybody and frequently complained about how useless he was and how meaningless his life was. I got about half way through and couldn't take anymore.
An amazing novel about human psychology.
The novels which Christie wrote as Westmacott are usually referred to as romance novels, and while there’s a healthy dose of romance involved here, it’s more of a human interest novel than anything else.Loosely speaking, the story follows the ruthless John Gabriel in his attempt to make it as a politician in a sleepy village, a man who would happily represent any political party so long as he could gain power.
It’s an interesting look back at a time that is no more, and to the types of character that you no longer get to meet – it’s also surprisingly exciting, despite the subject matter.I’ll be honest, I wasn’t expecting great things – as usual, Agatha Christie surprised me.
This is my first Mary Westmacott novel and I picked it up thinking it'd be a mystery novel with either the odball M.Poirot or the adorable Miss Marple (both of whom I love). Instead, it turned out to be a romance. But did it disappoint me? Not in the least. I throughly enjoyed perceiving the world through the eyes of Hugh Norreys, who, after being rendered invalid, has all the time in the world to observe people. Though it gets quite depressing, I will read it again.
Un'Agatha Christie che non smette mai di sorprendere, anche se non ci sono né delitti né detective alla base di questa storia.
Amore, politica, vecchi e nuovi rancori che portano gli abitanti di Saint Loo, Cornovaglia, a dar vita a una storia che può essere definita "classica", ma che classica non è.
La cosa che più si ama di questo romanzo, una volta chiusa l'ultima pagina, è scoprire che la nostra Regina del Giallo è anche regina nel decifrare il cuore umano, regina nel tirar fuori il bene e il male da ogni agire (e tutte le diverse sfumature che stanno tra questi due poli) e regina nel raccontarlo magistralmente.
Arka kapağındaki yazıdan yola çıkıp baş kahramanlarımızın ilk yüz sayfada aşık olup sonraki iki yüz sayfada da aşklarının bedelini nasıl ödeyeceklerini okuyacağımızı düşünüyor olabilirsiniz.Tıpkı benim gibi.:)Bence öyle olmuyor.Ben mi anlamadım onu bilemem.Ama sanki bir kasabanın seçim zamanındaki yaşantısını,kasaba sakinlerinin düşüncelerini okuyoruz da arada da onlar geçiyormuş gibi hissettim.Aradığımı bulamadığımdan dolayı da kitap bana boş hissettirdi.Yazım diline ise kesinlikle bir lafım yok, çok akıcıydı.Zaten bu kadar akıcı olmasa uzun süre bitiremezdim gibi geliyor.
Not your typical Agatha Christie. No mystery. No deduction. It's a love story actually. And not your run of the mill love story either, with all the yearning and pining. With very unique characters, the book offers great insight into the human nature.
Absorbing book with interesting characters and themes you had to wrestle with ! Really enjoying her Westmacott's so far. Liked Teresa. John Gabriel not so much!
According to Agatha Christie's daughter, Rosalind Hicks, "The Rose and the Yew Tree" was a favorite of Agatha Christie and also of her daughter.
The story is the tell of all the circumstances leading up to the reveal if the handsome man returns "home" and the life the woman has come to live.
There are many unexpected twists and turns and as always the reader becomes entranced by the writing.Don't miss reading more about the novels by Christie's daughter, Rosalind Hicks...https://www.agathachristie.com/about-...I am looking forward to reading the next romance titled, "A Daughter's a Daughter."
I hope I shall not be mistaken if I call this, "Pages of nothingness".
I seriously found not a single page interesting, or even a purpose behind each character's actions.
Here you go: A male protagonist who broke his leg and lost his fiancé and is depressed at present.
And he meets a girl, a princess who comes to his house everyday to sit with him and chat.
He explains what gibberish they speak everyday in the same monotonous way.
At last she marries a drunkard, who is not worthy to be called a human being and dies a foolish death and the protagonist sympathises.
Just can't digest this one!!
I loved Agatha Christie and her odd little Belgian and her prim Miss Marple, so I expected that I would love her Mary Westmacott stories.
The Rose and the Yew Tree sounded intriguing; instead I was left feeling down and depressed.
although the stories were well written and dragged me along, I didn't like them any better.
all very apt words to describe the Rose and the Yew Tree and the other MW stories I managed to find.Yeah, and the star?
I know a lot of people who would absolutely LOVE any of Mary Westmacott stories...
It is not a mystery, but a "romance." I would not have believed in the character of Isabella if I had not had my son.
The campaign manager sounds 21st century when he says, "Anything for a change." Another character states that politics boils down to "What people will believe, what they will stand, what they can be induced to think.
Never plain fact." To get the best understanding of this book, it would be helpful to know the world of 1945 as World War II was coming to an end and England has to adjust to peacetime.

Hugh Norreys meets a mysterious woman while convalescing at the English country home of his brother. At first he is puzzled by Isabella Charteris's air of unperturbed serenity but as their friendship develops, he becomes irresistibly drawn to her. Sadly, he can only watch helplessly as she turns away from all that is beloved and familiar in her life and starts down a questionable path. Agatha Christie writing as Mary Westmacott blends romance, politics and war to create a thought-provoking story. I'm eager to read more of the Westmacott novels.
Sempre achei que Agatha Christie era uma escritora que descrevia e compreendida os diferentes tipos de pessoas e neste livro ela descreve um conjunto de personagens de um modo único e dá uma visão impressionante das suas interacções. Não é apenas uma história com personagens invulgares misturadas com pessoas comuns, denota-se a sua energia e a individualidade com aquilo que dizem e sobretudo com aquilo que não é dito.Li uma versão em português editada pelos Livros do Brasil, não muito cuidada, com alguns erros de pontuação que dificulta a leitura.
Another non-mystery Christie. The relationships between men and women against the backdrop of small town post-war politics, seen through the eyes of Hugh, a man who has lost the use of his legs. Gabriel is a war hero and aspiring politician whose weakness is a crippling inferiority complex. The plot seems secondary to the characters. Some of them, Teresa, the wise sister-in-law and Isabella, the local "princess" are interesting.
Two people who should probably never have met do meet and fall in love (but definitely not like) and make each other miserable. Sounds like a terrible story, but actually isn't, mainly because the people involved aren't that simple. Agatha Christie really could write (people who say she couldn't are dorks or haven't read anything she wrote), and some of her Mary Westmacott books are the best proof of that, because they're stripped of the Poirot foibles and so on.
I feel like calling this book a book a "romance" is misleading. It's about human nature and behavior in many forms, and romance is just one of them. It's not a happy book, although I found the way the narrator grew throughout the story to be satisfying. My favorite character was the sometimes brutally honest sister-in-law.
J'abandonne à la centième page. Il y a clairement un problème de rythme, je n'arrive pas à entrer dans l'histoire ce qui est très rare avec Agatha ... J'y reviendrais peut-être mais je préfère passer à un autre roman, pouf le moment.
Agatha Christie, writing as Mary Westmacott, is a master at describing people, places and incidents. She details her characters so well that they seem like somebody you might have known in real life.
oh this is dull, hard to believe this is an Agetha Christie book.
Agatha Christie should have stuck to mysteries. I didn't care for any of the characters in this boring story written under her pen name.
http://kasiek-mysli.blogspot.com/2016...
Having read her biography, I do have an idea of her life, but it really comes through in this story - the helplessness of watching other peoples' lives and not doing something to make her own easier.Mary Westmacott - or as we better know her, world-renowned mystery writer Agatha Christie - really delves into and stirs up emotions with the Rose and the Yew Tree.
As in the Unfinished Portrait, the actual story is embedded within a Prelude and Epilogue, albeit both are needed also.
Well, Agatha Christie is not a world-renowned writer for nothing ...
The enigmatic Isabella Charteris for many years been expected to marry her cousin Rupert but when she meets political contender and all round rake Joun Gabriel things change in an instant.Her dreams of a home and happy future with Rupert are abandoned for the caddish John but is their union one of true love or is it just infatuation?Is the price they will pay to find out too high...?All her friend and secret admirer Hugh Norreys can do as a crippled invalid is sit back and pray that things will not end in disaster.
The book is ok, I guess. Not really what I think of Agatha Christie. It was interesting platform. Most of the characters' name I know someone with the same name. So it got confusing at times. The ending of the story had The House of Mirth feeling. There was mentioning of swearing but the ending hit me hard. I would rate this a 2.9.
Not a mystery, hmm. I recently discovered these books that I did not know existed. The characters are deep, lovely, well developed and the story is beautiful, so different from the mysteries.
