https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383199.The_Beckoning_Lady
I absolutely love Margery Allingham - and I think her Campion character is wonderful. But this is a book that's just for the enthusiasts. I found it rambling, lacking structure, sometimes verging on the incoherent. And the plot is a let-down too. This is one to avoid until you've read most of the others. Read it for completeness, but don't judge Allingham or the series by it.
As a rule, I enjoy reading Allingham’s detective novels featuring her sleuth, Albert Campion.
There is even a cast of characters given in the front of the book which you will find yourself referring to constantly.
The plot is complicated – aside from the huge cast of characters.
The novel is full of old English ways and customs, which seem out of place in a novel written in the mid-1950s, but Allingham was apparently adhering to her traditional style.
I suppose it’s worth reading if you are trying to cover Allingham’s canon, but I think that today’s reader will be disappointed.
Rereading a book I own. I liked it better last time. This time, it seemed overpopulated with eccentric characters popping in and out of scenes to have lively dialog in dated British slang. It's all a bit manic for a hot summer weekend's read.
This story melds old characters and new, with Campion and Amanda returning to her home village of Pontisbright, following the death of a character met in one of the first novels, and bringing along with them Charlie Luke, the powerhouse detective who has been central to more recent novels.Allingham's strength with characterisation and odd people is on display here, along with some amusing fallibility of Campion, who is immensely dismayed at Luke's infatuation with an "old-fashioned" local girl.
Not my favorite Campion story, probably because all the romantic relationships are unpleasant or utterly mystifying. The murders seem like they are almost beside the point.
I did enjoy this book.
I’ve always wanted to throw a great, big, stupendous party like the one featured here.
The ending was great but overall this book is hard to follow.
The plot becomes somewhat comprehensible by the time you reach the end but it’s a strange one.
There are a slew of extraneous characters that add nothing.
The whole thing often seems like listening to a deeply involved conversation between people who know each other well and have a long history when you don’t know either of them and have no knowledge of the background.
"Apparently in well-regulated country families no one is so indelicate as to stare at all of her at once."What a nicely savage way she has of putting things.
Somehow it escaped my notice that Margery Allingham had written nearly twice as many, again, featuring Campion in a smaller role and a wonderful, larger than life rumble of a police detective called Charlie Luke (for connoisseurs, Stanislaus Oates ascends to the highest rank of office in Scotland Yard and is rarely heard from again).
These later novels are almost all wonderful.
But the day before the party a body is discovered and it seems many people may have had a reason to wish the victim out of the way.This is a fascinating and amusing story of life in the nineteen-fifties set in idyllic countryside with a nice range of eccentric and mysterious characters.
It was good to see more of Lady Amanda as well and to see how the relationship between her and Campion is developing.If you enjoy crime novels set in in a gentler age which involve the reader in solving complex puzzles then try Margery Allingham.
The Campion novels can be read in any order.
The first chapter of this book was so promising- I recently read Margery Allingham's first two books and I have to say that her writing style had definitely improved by the time she got to this book which I almost immediately realized had been written much later.
Very little at all happens in the first half of the book and, as with the other two books of hers I've recently read, the time period's slang used sometimes makes the dialogue incomprehensible.
If you'd like to read a Margery Allingham book, I'd recommend The Gyrth Chalice Mystery or The Tiger in the Smoke instead.
Most boring Albert Campion mystery I have read. This is a pity since they are usually so much fun. In this book, nothing much happens, really. We know that there is a body out there and we wait for it to be discovered. We know that there will be a big party, and we watch the preparations progress. We think that there will be some denoument at the party, but when it comes it's kind of anticlimactic. There are no good red herrings, and the solution to the mystery is disappointing. Nothing in this book really grabbed my attention.
This Campion mystery was interesting because the mystery really didn't make up much of the story--much more time is spent in introducing some very vivid and entertaining characters and reintroducing some old ones. The mystery is there, but it almost seems an afterthought. It is always interesting to see Amanda and Campion's relationship, and somehow comforting that they and Lugg haven't changed much.
This was significantly harder to follow than others in the series; I think throwing in the financial and property issues was too much on top of needing to decipher the period slang and oblique storytelling style (which I typically enjoy). Either that, or my mind is getting slower. . .
The conversations are very natural and hence almost incomprehensible in some places because of obscure language and slangs.I still don't know what the author means when someone says Lady Glebe is a gallantry.If you are not reading the series you will probably leave the book midway and be relieved.Sweet Danger must be read before this as well as some others to understand who is who.All in all ,this is not really a standalone book and certainly not suitable as an introduction to Allingham .For Campion fans it's a must read and a very cozy one.
Albert Campion is spending the summer in Pontisbright with his family, visiting the charming, eccentric Minnie and Tonker Cassand for their renowned summertime festivities.Amanda and Albert are saddened by the recent death of the beloved but aged man they called “Uncle William”.
But this time, the strong competent detective is in a new circumstance: he is in love, and he hasn’t a clue how to deal with that.
#15 in the Albert Campion series, and this one takes us back to his wife Amanda's hometown of Pontisbright: a bucolic hamlet in Suffolk which somehow manages to be both enchanted and cursed at the same time.
We meet up again with a lot of familiar characters from the story in which Albert first encountered Amanda [Sweet Danger #5] many years ago, but some new folks as well.
And for the first time in the post-war novels, we see quite a lot of Albert's wife, Amanda, and six-year-old son, Rupert.
Although the ending seems a bit abrupt, overall this is one of the better Campion books, I think.
As usual with the Campion books, it begins with the murder - or in this case the aftereffects of a murder.
The Beckoning Lady is the home of an eccentric couple, Minnie and Tonker, who are in the throes of planning a gigantic party.
The plot is a little more convoluted than usual, with a plethora of characters, so it got a little confusing - there are at least three subplots going on, as near as I could tell.
Despite all the confusion, it was a fun read, even though some of the eccentricities are a bit over the top.
Something of a whodunit, but more a novel of manners. Think Downton Abbey, but set in the 1950s among an arty but wealthy crowd that is still able to put together the kind of parties at the manor house that you would have expected from the Downton Abbey clan. The explanation of the murders occurs almost as an afterthought, and is perhaps a little too convenient.
Confusing. Bewildering. Plotline is hard to follow. Ending unsatisfactory.
Didn't like the wrap-upThis Campion mystery didn't keep me interested as much as other novels in the series. Just didn't like the way this one ended.
I used to love Margery Allingham, but I give this one a low rating because of all the country colloquialisms with which I'm not familiar.
Good story; got a bit confusing following the main characters and their relationships with one another.
My wife is an Allingham fan of long standing and she tells me that many of the characters are regulars in the cast and that I might have been better advised beginning with an earlier book and working through chronologically.
Even after working out the who and the where and the why and the what, not to mention the when, I still felt I was standing on a boulder in the fog.
When the interlocutors are in the dark about what the other character is going on about then I can forgive myself as a reader for getting lost and dragged into the net.
There are some enjoyable characters painted boldly in bright colours.
I read this book under the title "The Estate of the Beckoning Lady" (New York: Avon, 1955.] We are back in the country village where Albert Campion first met his wife Amanda, and both she and the precocious offspring have parts to play in this tale of a large party-cum-art-showing at the home of the Campions' eccentric friends.
There are three deaths in the novel - an apparently natural death of an older invalid, a tramp with his skull bashed in, and the suicide of a maiden lady.
It turns out that the maiden lady was the accidental cause of the old man's death, and (in self-defense) the almost accidental cause of the tramp's.
This installment finds our hero, Albert Campion, down in the country for this party along with Amanda & their son Rupert; it all begins with the discovery of a dead body and the death of Uncle William.
Uncle William, if you've been following the series, has been in a couple of Campion mysteries, and is much beloved by Campion and Amanda.
So...Campion does not believe that Uncle William died peacefully, but rather was murdered, and while preparing for the party, must investigate to see if he was correct.
Recommended for those following the series and those who are fans of British mystery in general.
This vintage Albert Campion mystery was a wonderful, nostalgic re- read for me.
And, I was wild about Albert Campion, and continue to be a great fan.This book presented a somewhat different side of Campion, a domestic side, which in some ways was less interesting than his London, "man of mystery" guise.
His repartee with his assistant, Lugg, was more infrequent and the book subsequently had a totally different tone than many of the earlier stories.
I loved the setting of the zany party and the Campion's eccentric, arty friends, but the resolution to the murders was somewhat unsatisfactory.
Many of the Campion mysteries benefit from a second reading, and this book proves that point.
I finished the book, went back to the opening chapters to clarify some points, and ended up rereading it completely.
Allingham includes so many little clues and so many characters that you're bound to miss one - or five - when you're making your way through the book the first time.
In any case, the mystery and its development were clever, and there were so many interesting characters running around (even the small ones: Westy and his suit, the Augusts clowns) that I enjoyed reading about them again, knowing where they would play a part.
Another entertaining Campion mystery, although a little foggy.
Albert Campion and his family are in the country to attend a friends annual summer party when not one but two individuals die. I had thought I'd read everything written by Margery Allingham years ago and was delighted to find "The Beckoning Lady". I loved it and plowed right through it in one long sitting (rainy day). I did guess the murderer well before the end, but there were some interesting twists. I love the dialogue...if you like action thrillers without conversation, this is not a book for you.
Minnie and Tonker Cassands are getting ready for their annual summer party at Minnie's home, The Beckoning Lady. Unfortunately, Minnie is in serious trouble with the Department of Inland Revenue and the dead man discovered in a ditch near her house is a tax inspector. It turns out that there are a number of people who wanted him dead and Albert Campion and DCI Charles Luke have to step in to figure out what's going on. An entertaining read from a master from the Golden Age of Mystery.
Kindle Owners Lending Library | Not great, really more 2.5 stars. Title is a cheat, as it's nothing more than the name of a house, with no importance to the story. A protagonist meant to be sympathetic and likeable who got irritated with his wife and gave her a black eye, which is considered not a big deal. Lots of oblique references between characters which go unexplained. Unsatisfying ending. Only worth reading for those wanting a full picture of Campion, Amanda, Lugg, and Luke.
I read the first Campion book and thought I would be okay reading one much further along in the series, but was very wrong. My Kindle version did not have a cast of characters which would have been a big help. I was totally confused by a myriad of friends and relatives, all with nicknames as well as real ones used. The plot was very convoluted, but I think I would have enjoyed this more if I had read more of the previous ones.
