https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107971.The_Birth_of_the_Clinic
There is some incredibly interesting stuff at the start where the disadvantages of putting people into hospitals prior to the French Revolution is discussed by doctors at the time because they understood illness as something needing to be explained in relation to the patient’s entire life as lived and in the hospital a person stops being a person and becomes merely an example of an illness.
I'd recommend reading it before On the Order of Things as it's a good introduction to his study of epistemological change.3.
There seem to be a lot of reviewers on here who jump the gun on the power thing.
This isen't really about power as much is it is about how much of an effect HOW we interpret the same facts can have on what we learn from them.
With that as a starting point we can then ask "what in the power structure makes us change how we interpret the same fact?"
(Source: http://www.flickr.com/photos/patrick-...)Beneath the outstretched arms of the statue, Christus Consolatur, at the illustrious Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, there is a simple inscription: “Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden and I will give you rest.” This simple phrase reflects the hopes and aspirations of many who turn to the medical profession.Foucault here attempts an 'archaeology' of the medical field - he reconstructs a history of ideas of how medicine was perceived - through a study of French medicine in the late 18th and early 19th century, and brushes away the sediment which obscure the origins of the field.
This latter group should, however, still check out some of Foucault's other writings on the politics of health, which explain the relationship between modern forms of government, medicine, and population control, which are not quite the concern of "The Birth of the Clinic." Some I recommend: "Governmentality" is available in "Secutirty, Territory, Population," "Power: The Essential Works of Michel Foucault Volume III," and "The Foucault Effect"; "The Politics of Health in the 18th Century" can be found in "The Foucault Reader" and "Power/Knowledge"; and "Space, Knowledge, and Power" can be found the "The Foucault Reader" and "Language, Counter-Memory, Practice." "The Order of Things" is also worth checking out for this line of thought.There is one extremely interesting break Foucault notices between medieval and modern medicine, and that is in their attitude towards death.
The real difficulty with the text is Foucault's lack of exposition: names like Bichat, Pinel (who also appears in M & C), and Morgagni are dropped as if they are the author's best friends, and outdated medical terms appear throughout (which is why this book is best read as an e-book, because even if one needs to pause to look up "phthisis," the built-in dictionary means that the delay won't prove substantial).
I wasn't able to read it all at once — several tries ended in exhaustion and pretending that the book does not even exist :) I always needed to take a deep breath before diving back into it — it's a dense text.
Yes. The book describes in painful detail everything related to illness, its diagnosis and treatment, but all that information is needed only to understand how those people understood the illness (and human body).
(Interesting point is seeing my own (popular, common-sensical) understanding of the topic and seeing various layers of (often deprecated) professional knowledge in it.)Wonderful book about how science works — especially when the people are its focus — and how we understand the world.
Less interesting than "madness and civilization" it does make a few interesting points about early modern medicine.
The transition where medicine changed from a complicated form of sympathetic magic ( the four humors, miasmas and such)to the dependence on the "gaze" basically looking at the patient's body and determining the malady from the appearance of parts of the body.
Definitely a shift of focus on the part of doctors and shift in worldview involved on how the body works but there is a lot of reading into a change of outlook.
Like Foucault, it all begins with Descartes, and how Enlightenment casts out and "others" the mentally ill. Unfortunately, I discovered that the French edition is more complete, and most English translations are abridged, particularly in the second chapter which really digs into Decartes' Cogito and the effects of "cogito ergo sum" on madmen.
To use one of Foucault's favorite (or at least most frequent) criticisms against others (in this text), this book is needlessly prolix; he throws that word around like it's going out of style.
If you're going to tackle this work, you're going to need a decent amount of outside reading, knowledge of obscure 17th to 19th century medical practices, a decent latin dictionary, and a rudimentary working knowledge of French (occasionally, when a word in English can have more than one French word that it is translated from, the translator will put the English word, and the original French word in order to clarify...
Un poco complejo, pero interesante... Digamos, intermitente. Se remite a una época específica en Francia. Complicado para los que no manejan términos básicos de medicina. Bastante filosofía, algo de política, reformas, etc.Incluye capítulos muy buenos: "Antigüedad de la clínica", "Ver, saber", "Abrid algunos cadáveres".
I'm sure this is an excellent history of the medical gaze in the late eighteenth century, but I found myself too deep in the weeds to actually understand Foucault's theoretical work in his endless explications of various doctor's theories of disease and the reorganization of medical administration in the wake of the French Revolution. For Foucault completists only.
Este libro trata sobre el espacio, el lenguaje y la muerte; sobre el acto de ver, sobre la mirada.  Foucault para Principiantes Pág.62
medicine is a huge part of our culture, and i think it's important we learn about the role it plays in our lives, and how it came about
This is one of the most formative books I ever read.
Bahasa yang sederhana dan adunan ilmu perubatan dengan politik, sejarah dan falsafah yang diolah baik oleh penulis Perancis ini.
Mereka dihimpit dengan cukai yang menyebabkan mereka mengemis, kemiskinan yang hanya menguntungkan golongan atasan dan penginapan yang tidak kondusif (malahan gelandangan) yang hanya memaksa mereka untuk tidak mendirikan keluarga atau hidup dalam rupa bentuk yang sangat mengerikan!Antara penekanan lain yang cukup memukau ialah mengenai jalinan teori dan praktikal ilmu perubatan.
Bukan sekadar mengetahui keabstrakan teori-teorinya semata-mata.Perspektif indah lain yang dicetuskan oleh penulis ialah kaedah untuk meminimumkan tersebarnya penyakit; iaitu dengan memberikan pendidikan dan pendedahan ilmu perubatan (umum) kepada masyarakat.
needs a re-read to be fully appreciated
This book contains some fantastic insights into the nature of medical perception. I especially loved the idea of disease becoming a thing that exists in a strange place between the patient and the medical practitioner, and of course the enduring idea of the gaze and the "eye that governs". As ever when fresh off of Foucault, I'm finding it hard to broaden these ideas out and see bigger implications, as his historical works are always so centred around the details. I'll need time to think, read criticism, and apply the ideas.
Second, this book exposes the structures of knowledge used in medical practice, and because my own life has been invaded by cancer, I desire to be able to get "outside" the typical story provided by the medical clinic and perhaps see it from a detached, different, perspective.
This is what Foucault calls, "the secretly linguistic structure of the datum." The perception of the human individual, with respect to disease, has dramatically shifted with the forces that created the "clinic", a place where study and healing have an uncomfortable co-existence.
And the medical "gaze", having considered death and autopsy, has transitioned from the system-level and abstract to the anatomical.I was reminded of Kuhn reading Foucault.
Birth of the Clinic is a fantastic exploration of the epistemological shift that medicine takes; and on a greater scale delineates what knowledge is and how the mode of its acquisition is just as important as knowledge itself.Incredibly dense and thoughtful, this book was meant to present the problems of modern medicine; however it does not attempt to offer any solutions (that wasn't really Foucault's style).
I think a lot of people my age aren't really be able to see that, or perhaps are not fully open to the idea.
It's just ironic that he presents modern medicine as this problem that alienates and subjugates people with its subculture and dialect....
Foucault was predominantly immersed in the late 18th century, or early Modernism (The Enlightenment) when he wrote this book.
Is it a coincidence that the advent of so-called "Modern" medicine occurred at a time when Western Culture was rapidly Capitalizing?
The population of France quadrupled during the last part of the 18th century.
No. Is Modern Medicine the result of Lonely Geniuses doing ground-breaking work?
No. The Great Men of history (and yes, our textbooks tell us that greatness is a male quality) were a product of their time, and the subsequent market forces at play that produced their knowledge just like the rest of us.
I have read most of Foucault's major works and the Birth of Clinic is one of my favorites.
While the structure of clinical medicine he maps out in Birth of the Clinic is not necessarily reflective of the model of clinical medicine today, it is important because it provides a basis for understanding how the body became central to the production of medical knowledge in the 19th century, and how medicine is not a politically neutral or scientifically "objective" field.
Rather, changes internal to the field of medicine are inseparable from its social and political environment.
Как говорит автор - это эссе о методе в плохо структурированной области.
А пока она не отыщется - немного освежить понимание вопроса - так уж вышло, что Фуко много писал о здоровье, но всё это ужасно обрывочно, неполно и редко когда последовательно.
Здесь есть пара забавных моментов - о языке медицины (как-нибудь в контексте этого я пошучу о почерке врачей, мол, от цехового языка, понятного только "своим", почти ушли, но зато пришли к цеховым загогулинам) и о неких задатках широко известной круговой поруки.Очень специфически, чистый структурализм, не могу просто так рекомендовать.
It seems like Foucault is using a slightly more direct style than is his wont, but this effect is largely eliminated by the obscurity of his historical references.
As with much of his writing, I felt that I understood the beginning and end of the narrative arc pretty well without being entirely clear on what happened in the middle.
I was, in fact, all set to give this a mediocre rating; what changed my mind was the clear and fantastic ending.
It really is a great statement of Foucault's (early?) philosophy as a whole, and an unusually elegant formulation.
Een medische (anti-) filosofische detective waarin Foucault veranderd denken in de medische wereld uiteenzet: mentaliteit/beroepsethiek/kennisniveau/systematiek/methodologie/maatschappelijke functie van artsen.
Hij wordt zelf haast een romancier met het bombast van zijn literair aandoend taalgebruik.
Neem deze schitterende zin: 'In het berekenende ruilverkeer van een liberale wereld is de blik van de arts een goed belegde besparing...(115) Of neem deze even dramatische oneliner: 'De duisternis van het leven wijkt voor de helderheid van de dood.' (184) Aan een inhoudelijke kritiek waag ik me niet, maar Foucault heeft in ieder geval geboeid met zijn meeslepende schrijfstijl.
Nochtans ben ik er bijna een half jaar mee bezig geweest, want het blijft pittige kost.
More dense, albeit indisputably well-researched prose from Foucault.
The text itself does precisely what its subtitle indicates: formulate an "archaeology" (à la Foucault) of medical perception.
Over the course of the book, he introduces new terminology (the gaze, the glance, pathological anatomy, etc.) that experiences radical chronological evolution.
For example, whereas the gaze initially focuses solely on what can be visually perceived by a physician, it transforms by the end of the text into a tactile and audible mode of medical analysis.
I can see this text being useful in the medical classroom as a tool for instructing how medical knowledge has developed over the centuries.
The whole notion of health hinges on the loss of doctors in the continental wars that raged in Europe pre-Revolution, that left France a land of quackery served on a side plate with a self trained country doctor sandwiches.
Standards had to be put in place, and the clinic was born to address this quandary over the health space, where was it?
and what could be done there and who had the authority to do it once the clinic moved itself from an undelimited outside general idea to a specific domain where health and sickness were tight correlates.
Foucault just bounces all over the place, trying to tie together various observations about space, seeing, family, empiricism and medical reforms with no clear goal or overall project.
I loved the strong, accessible style of discipline and punish, but Birth of the Clinic has a really weak, meandering quality to it, maybe because it's one of Foucault's earlier works.
Which is not to say that Foucault doesn't make some smart observations in it, he does, but they seem isolated and never really fall into whatever the broader project of this work is meant to be.
A really daunting read due to his reliance on philosophical sentence structure and philosophical or archaic terminology. Overall, as a physician, it is remarkable to explore the requisite naïveté and inexperience from which modern clinical medicine was birthed. The advent of touching patients, exploring for causation, examining tissue, and positivism as a replacement of what essentially sounds like witchcraft is especially estimable. Foucault is clearly brilliant. I may explore, either in reviews or the original text, his treatises on madness, prison and sexuality in the future.
Una maravilla, no sólo por el despliegue fértil del método arqueológico de Foucault, sino por la belleza con que está escrito. Puede mencionarse, a modo de ejemplo, la prosa que transita elegantemente entre opacidad y claridad en "Abrid algunos cadáveres", haciendo eco de lo visible y enunciable sobre la vida y la muerte en la anatomía patológica del s. XVIII. Una obra fundamental para lectores de Foucault, las teorías críticas, y quienes se planteen examinar la historia del presente de la medicina en particular y las "ciencias de la salud" en general.
I can see why Foucault is tagged as brilliant; there are some really insightful observations in this book. But I suspect that he has better books than this one, which really jumps all over the place.His conclusion, though, is so clever and interesting that I'm tempted to give this 4 stars. He really didn't give much of hint where he was going while making the broader argument, though, and if he did, it was hidden under the incredibly dense text.People should read Foucault, though. His influence in certain sectors of the field of history is substantial.
