https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1157452.MeruPuri_Vol_1
I really liked this high fantasy and the artwork is just as magical as Hino’s other series.
Great story line and fun dialog.
Definitely a manga I will continue to read.Airi Hoshina is a freshman in high school and she already has her heart set on finding the right guy that she will someday marry and build a life with.
But suddenly her dreams are disrupted when an event of fairytale proportions disrupts her plans and invokes an element of chaos she never anticipated.Fun read that requires a enjoyable suspension of reality.
Super cute story that I loved!
A young prince (elementary school age) is somehow zapped into our world and ends up living with a high school girl named Ari, who dreams of getting married and having a family.
He's still a 9-year old kid.
I remember 9-year old boys, when I was in elementary school.
The thought of this ditz softening up toward a brat like that just because he looked good half the time totally turned me off.
I found the story pretty immature, although there are plenty of people I know who thought it was fantastic.
Not only is it her goal to marry the man of her dreams, she truly believes that if she arrives at school for, on time, for two years, the magic mirror she inherited will grant her wish to marry her true love.
When Aram arrived, Airi's life was lonely and it was nice having him him around until she realizes that Aram turns from a cute little boy into a gorgeous man overnight.
Airi, a romantic herself, has built this ideal man because she, like Aram, is on her own and needs something, or someone, to look forward to.
I can see that this series is very popular. And maybe it gets better as it goes on, but it's just not hitting the right notes with me. I just wasn't having fun reading it. The art is very nice, I will admit that.
So, in terms of art this manga was quite good. I think the artist got better in Vampire Knight though. The plot wasn't too out of it either like some manga's are but I wouldn't say it's super interesting, just enough to keep me reading but not altogether satisfying me.
From her mirror steps Aram, a boy prince from Astale, a magical kingdom that apparently her great-great-great-great-great (?) grandma came from.
I even like Jeile and his hench fairy Maruru.
The author also had little side notes throughout the story.
Every once in a while at the end of the story there's these cute little mini-pics inside the star shape of the mirror.
Each one has some cute little comment pertaining to the story.
To the side it reads: "Mysterious who have yet to show themselves...Airi's grandparents" Kind of a tongue in cheek reference to the fact that somehow this teenager is living alone.
I cannot tell you how many times I've re-read this series.
I just wish she could re-draw some scenery, because I remember reading the author's notes in each volume of Merupuri, and Hino saying she needed to work on that.
I especially loved the romance they had (even some erotica xD), not a lot of shoujo ten years ago had beautiful art and serious relationships like this one.
I loved all of the characters; even the side stories to help develop them further!If Hino ever decided to continue this series, I would without a doubt, buy every volume :D!
Airi is obsessed with falling in love, getting married, and starting a family.
Full of beautiful artwork, MeruPuri is a treat to read.Except for the awkward relationship developing between high school freshman Airi and nine-year-old Aram.
While the teacher/student age-gap relationship seems common in certain manga, the thought of a fourteen or fifteen year old falling in love with a kid is a bit creepy, no matter how beautiful the artwork may be.
The other relationships don't fare much better: everyone is in love with Airi.
It's unrealistic and keeps the story childish.Overall, two stars for plot.
este es uno de esos mangas que podrian considerarse "clasicos" creo que a todo el mundo le sonara de algo este manga, sobre todo si son fans de esta autora, tambien conocida por "Wanted!" o la mundialmente conocida serie "Vampire Knight".Ahora vamos a la historia en si misma: Un principe caprichoso que crece cada vez que esta en un lugar oscuro.Una adolescente que desea vivir un romance con el honbre perfecto.Si todo esto lo mezclamos con magia, humor, amor, un dibujo precioso y unos personajes memorables; obtendremos un manga 100% recomendado.
主人公の女子高生・愛理が魔法王国のちっちゃなプリンス・アラムに見初められちゃってからのドタバタラブコメディ。毎回乙女心をくすぐる展開が用意されてます。 アラム王子は可愛い７歳児なんですが、本当に７歳なのかってくらい大人びていてクールな言動がカッコイイのに加え、魔法で大人の姿になっちゃうと冷たい感じの美青年になって中身７歳の強引で我儘な子供っぽい言動で愛理に執着して読者を翻弄してくれちゃいます。 作品中ではキスが重要なファクターになっていて、キスが多いし使い方がとにかくエロティックでドキドキします。アラム王子はちっちゃくめっちゃ可愛いのに、無自覚なエロ……じゃなくて色気むんむんで毎巻びっくりです。 絵がとっても綺麗で可愛くて眺めているだけでも楽しいので、年下年の差ラブが好きな人にはとってもオススメです。
it is an amazing story. i loved it so much & it affected me, i actually cried. and i advise everyone to read it.
Probably the squishiest, sappiest, prettiest, and most romantic series I own. Sometimes I just need squishiness.
creepy
I LOVED IT!!!!!!!!!!!! such a cute story:) I actually finished the last manga, there were only...4 i believe??? yeah, i misplaced them, lol anyways, this was such an adorable manga:)
Really really good
Super cute! Super cute!
In this book, a girl named Airi Hoshina was walking to school one morning when a boy named Aram came out of her star necklace, because it's a portal which she didn't know.
"Now I can forget the sorrows of my past."This is an impactful quote because when Jeile said this to Airi, he means that she is the reason why he can let go of the reason why he hates his brother, because of his love for her.My opinion on this book is that it has a great story filled with romance, comedy, and school life, with some magical beings.
I may be shallow, but I couldn’t help but act a total blushing fangirl every time Aram said something unbelievably innocently romantic to Airi.
Despite this, Airi felt conflicting feelings towards Aram quite often due to him technically still being a kid and considered her totally goody goody cute classmate on several occasions more appropriate for a love interest (which he would have actually been quite perfect for if it wasn’t for the existence of Aram), but all went into place in the end!
He's young, but being a prince one could understand the reason why he has a charachter so mature in some ways, which is one of the reasons Airi falls in love with him in the end.
its made very clear that they get actually phisically involved only when he turns of age at the end of the series, being really 17 so there is no such problem anymore.So, lets talk about the story: they have to overcome many difficulties, which I'm not going to explain right now.
In her shoes, she has to cope with a kindergarten age- prince who chases her around but it's worth it; she gets to be wooed by a hot teenage guy when he gets into the dark....
Though the age changing pattern was more creative, I personally didn't find anything that special about this manga.....
The humor was on average, and despite the girl character's hot temper, she was again a bit typical.
The main male character, despite his young age is extremely mature...
The artwork is without a doubt beautiful, but the story is sort of basic. Overly romantic, overly 'humorous', and without much depth. It's cute for sure but in a world of Shojo this one sort of feels like all the others. I think I'm coming to terms with the fact that I just can't get into most Shojo manga anymore.
Overall, typical shoujo manga. Art style is pretty solid and well done. Plot is simplistic at best and requires some leaps of faith, especially in the first few chapters. The ending is a tad bit abrupt. Still, it has the necessary romantic elements to make you squeal and is overall a fun, if not intellectually challenging read.
3 Stars.Really cute! :D I like the blend of magic and comedy, and the characters are a lot of fun to read about. Also like that this is a short and sweet series (only four volumes!) so hoping to finish the full series over the weekend.
Interesting story and fun characters! I can't wait to see what happens! Such a unique jump between worlds!
Really conflicted about the age difference between the two main characters. It's what...6 years? Which isn't a big deal for adults...but they aren't. So, yes, not sure how I feel.
Great art. Great beginning. Can't really judge till I read the other volumes.
I just couldn't get over the sexualized 7year old. My brain kept chanting "grooming." And the gap in the Jeile/Maruru storyline.
Is this original? No. Did I have a good time? You bet.
Bien trop niais pour moi mais je reconnais l'attrait de l'histoire !
An absolute favorite series of mine! I have both paperback and electronic copies. Love the artwork!!
