https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3446.Going_After_Cacciato
The war is like a fly buzzing in the window just within his peripheral vision, but the real world was existing behind his eyes.In his fantasy world the platoon takes off through the jungle after Cacciato.
In his mind Paul moves the platoon about like chess pieces on a board.
Paris, to Cacciato and; therefore, for Paul, is looked on as the first city among civilization, and when they dream about leaving the war they are dreaming about escaping to the most civilized place on the planet.
A war "without clear moral purpose." "The issue, of course, was courage.
On the other hand, Tim O’Brien lacks focus.Ah!
Well, maybe.I mean, it’s clear from the beginning that none of this pan-Asia quest is quite “real.” And as the book progresses, it sort of settles on you that O’Brien doesn't intend to ever really let you know what "real" would even mean.
Rather, we are made to believe that this is some sort of imagining in the mind of the protagonist, Paul Berlin – some sort of exploration of the possible and the impossible, of the region between dusk and dawn where death and war confuse the two in categorical terms.But then again, who is the protagonist?
So whether it is a truth-seeking need to understand the sadness that countless men and women have had to endure, or it is some atavistic genetic tugging that keeps leading me back to these stories, I am addicted to the threnody of War.Although I will read almost any non-fiction book on war that is recommended to me, it is fiction based upon events that really resonates.
It makes what Tim O'Brien has done with this novel - and others like him throughout the ages - that much more amazing.Final note: after finishing this book I called my father to ask him why, when he returned from the war, he didn't go back to his music career (he became an accountant).
The disjointed nature of the novel didn't come as a shock; Tim O'Brien's masterpiece The Things They Carried was a compilation of harrowing short stories penned between 1975 and 1990 on the subject of the Vietnam War. In this novel, published in 1978, O'Brien's attempt to contrast the external experiences of a young army specialist conscripted into the war while taking the reader into his imagination, where the possibilities of walking out of the war all the way to Paris are explored at length, didn't come together for me.The novel begins with twenty-year-old Spec Four Paul Berlin surrounded by death and bad times while serving his Vietnam combat tour in October 1968.
It isn't a simple moral point to stay or go, to fight or to run.
This confrontation with fear, death, loyalty, morality, friendship, leading, following, is key.
The key to this novel is conflict.
The conflict is key.
With lyrical beauty, flashbacks, and a magical realism that I've never experienced in a novel about the Vietnam War, O'Brien spins a story that is just that: a yarn, a spin, a giant fantasy race, a road movie, a Moby-Dick, a Danse Macabre, a metaphysical and very modern dance.
It is a story of the good, the bad; those who run and those who follow.
Dreamlike story of a quest and an escape from war, of a soldier in Vietnam who decides he's had enough and begins hiking to Paris, and of the soldiers tasked with bringing him back. The horror and absurdity and sheer unreality of war are on full display in this moving novel.
A soldier with the lowest I.Q. could still have a lot of common sense which would make them excellent soldiers, if properly lead, but poor O'Brien must've been a fish out of water to begin with.The story is told by Private Paul Berlin, a new arrival to his infantry company as he muses over his past experiences in Vietnam while relating his present circumstances.Berlin's present storyline is confusing to say the least as a few members of his company are tasked with finding the AWOL soldier, Cacciato, who is heading overland for Paris to escape the horrors of war.The whole company had been traumatized as their buddies have one by one met horrible deaths in battle and Cacciato has apparently gone over the deep end.
Going After Cacciato is less accessible than The Things They Carried because trying to discern the truth of what happens when Cacciato, a young soldier in Vietnam, chooses to go AWOL and walk all the way to Paris is difficult at best.
The problem with making sense of the narrative comes from Paul Berlin himself--a young soldier ill-equipped to deal with the violence and atrocity of war, he uses his imagination to while away the tedious hours, as well as to re-create traumatic events with which he's not ready to cope.
کتاب خوبی بود و داستان افراد داخل جنگ رو خوب به تصویر کشیده بود. جزئیاتش مناسب بود، خشونتش بیش از حد نبود و پیام های اخلاقی خوبی در راستای جنگ داشت. اینکه چطور زندگی های مردم این میان بدون دلیل خاصی نابود شد. نثرش ساده بود و خواندنش هم سریع بود، داستان اونقدر گیرا بود که موقع خواندن مرز بین این دنیا و کتاب رو گم میکردی. سیستم روایتش بیشتر شیفت زمانی بود و عقب، جلو میرفت. با کارکترها به راحتی میشد همدردی و همزادپنداری کرد. پایان خوب و مناسبی هم داشت.
It is one thing to run from unhappiness; it is another to take action to realize those qualities of dignity and well-being that are the true standards of the human spirit.I read this on a whim during a transition period. I appreciated its swagger. The premise is simple and fantastic, an infantryman frustrated by the lack of progress at the Paris Peace Talks, decides to walk there from Vietnam and his peers pursue him to save him from his own idealism.
Tim O'Brien is such an impressive American writer. THE THINGS THEY CARRIED is more widely known than GOING AFTER CACCIATO, but this book is also a heavyweight. More of a meditation on madness and war, this book absolutely blew me away. Amazing...
And if that happens to take them to Paris, that's fine with them.It's 1969, and Paul Berlin is a Private First Class in the Viet Nam War. On guard duty at the top of a tower, he watches the sea, reviews his experiences so far, and tries to run away inside his head, far far away, from all the terrible things he's seen and done.
To find the good mixed in with all the bad, as his father suggested.I read about World War II all the time.
But the Viet Nam War was something else.
The Things They Carried is still O'Brien's best, in my opinion, but Going After Cacciato is not far behind. The ease with which he elicits emotions and the deftness with which he changes them is amazing. When he describes a chopper ride into a hot LZ you can almost see, hear, and smell the experience. He can make painful passages (like Chapter 44) such an essential part of the story that you welcome the pain. Best of all is his ability to surprise you time after time with subtle twists and turns. Everybody should be reading Tim O'Brien's writing.
3,75
After reading, The Things They Carried, I immediately ran down to the library to check out O’Brien’s earlier writing, Going After Cacciato.
And maybe my expectations were too high, but I was very disappointed in this writing.
The Things They Carried was written in such a sophisticated manner.
Going After Cacciato seemed jagged and forced.
Maybe someone would tell me that I didn’t get it, that I missed the message or the symbolism.
Oh no, I got the message.
I just didn’t like the prose used to deliver it.
One of the most unremarkable stories I’ve read in a long time.
Source: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...…O’Brien brilliantly portrays Berlin’s story of Vietnam through fragments and an array of possibilities that cleverly leaves the reader’s mind open to many avenues of understanding and interpretation.
Source: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...So you get the idea that you have to have a flexible brain to read and enjoy this book, don’t you?
He just didn’t know if the war was right or wrong.
Oh, he would have rather fought with his father in France, knowing certain things certainly, but he couldn’t choose his war, nobody could.
Now, war ended, what did she want?
In fact, The New York Times said of Going After Cacciato, "To call Going After Cacciato a novel about war is like calling Moby-Dick a novel about whales." And I think this quote could easily apply to The Things They Carried as well.
That said, I thought Going After Cacciato was a great book, but it didn't move me the same way The Things They Carried did.
I think maybe what I liked more about The Things They Carried was that it was made up of shorter stories that all connected in some way, and each of those stories was concise and had a strong impact.
As we ate and drank beer, Kareem told me about the book he'd been reading and enjoying, The World According to Garp, by John Irving, which I've never read.
The only thing I've ever read by Tim O'Brien is The Things They Carried, which I remember thinking was just okay, except for the one unforgettable anecdote about a guy who somehow gets his American girlfriend to come over to Vietnam.
Going After Cacciato won the award in 1979, beating out four other nominees, including...The World According to Garp, by John Irving.
The protagonist, PFC Paul Berlin, and a group of new recruits have just arrived in Vietnam to begin their tour of duty.]:"In the morning the fifty new men were marched to a wooden set of bleachers facing the sea.
A small, sad-faced corporal in a black cadre helmet waited until they settled down, looking at the recruits as if searching for a lost friend in a crowd.
Time passed slowly, ten minutes, twenty, but still the sad-faced corporal did not turn or nod or speak.
The sea was clean, and the sand and the wind.They sat in the bleachers for a full hour.Then at last the corporal sighed and stood up.
Going after Cacciato begins innocently enough.
We meet Paul Berlin, a private in Vietnam and we meet his squadmates and we begin to see the struggles and the triumphs of these men.
Thus begins the chase and thus begins the book in earnest.Going After Cacciato is a book about the war.
And so Paul Berlin is not a reliable narrator.
The book takes a series of more and more surprising turns that begin to make the reader question what, exactly is going on.
What is going on, however, is a war that is a just as crazy.
Is this an anti-war book?
Multiple perspectives are what fuel thought, so that ultimately the written word doesn’t act as though it’s figured itself out.Nothing can be truer of Tim O’Brien’s Going After Cacciato, in which the main character Paul Berlin finds himself on a constant quest for answers in a reality of contradictions and subjectivity.
The present time, memories of the war, and the tale of chasing Cacciato, which takes place in Paul Berlin’s imagination.
While the present and his imaginary tale are recited chronologically, the actual war events get mangled out of a distinct timeline.O’Brien also poses an array of questions: can a soldier escape war through imagination?
It's very well written, and the scenes are stitched together evenly despite ranging from blunt street-talking realism to elaborate flights of fantasy.
In the course of its dream-plot (chasing the deserter, who decides to walk from Vietnam to Paris), the book takes on philosophical issues such as whether Vietnam was morally different from other wars, what it means to be obligated to ideals or people, what it means to be brave, and so on; and addresses specific issues like the fact that none of the men knew anything about Vietnam, its language or culture or people.
Really an admirable work, moving and disturbing.
Similar in approach to The Things They Carried, but not nearly as successful, largely because in trying to get around the problem of how to write a war story about a war as metaphysically unhinged as Vietnam, O'Brien settles here on the weary kelson of the hallucinogenic, it-was-all-a-dream plot that, by its very architectonics, evacuates all the drama from the drama and leaves behind little but the words themselves.
For a writer like Pynchon, or Joyce, this might succeed.
That book succeeds by showing how the soldier's pain blurs the factuality of his storytelling, and his inability to tell the straight story of Vietnam heightens that book's dramatic energy, instead of deflating it.
i have read this only 2 times, but memories of the book persist. this is the first vietnam book i had read, most of my familiarity is through films like apocalypse now. this book is also as fantastic, also as extreme, and the idea that the only escape from a horror is through the imagination, to me this suggests the value of art. there is the wonderful, deadpan recitation of deaths that begin the book. there is les evenements of paris 1968. there is everything in between.
Having already read The Things They Carried, I was a little skeptical going into this book.
While The Things They Carried is an attempt to translate how those who have escaped the war try to live with it, Going After Cacciato seeks to convey how those who are living the war try to escape it.
At the absurdist level, this takes physical form: the protagonist Paul Berlin and his squad chasing a deserter named “Cacciato” clean across the face of the Old World as he tries to reach the glittering city of Paris.
As the squad makes its way on the 8,600-mile trek, at some point you begin to realize that things that happen on the way to Paris link to the squad's real war experiences in Vietnam, the second narrative strand in this book, which eventually tells the stories of how the ten men listed at the beginning died.
In the third thread, Paul Berlin reflects on the war and his place in it over one night on watch in an observation post along the South China Sea, and it is also there that he begins to work out the possibilities of "What happened and what might have happened," to Cacciato and by extension, to himself and the squad chasing after the AWOL soldier.
This is the first book O'Brien released and the last one for me to read (I still have his memoir to tackle also).
The Caccicato in the title is a character that is only on the periphery of the story.
And then we enter the world of O'Brien in which things may not be what they seem.
All along I knew there had to be more to this back story and once I got to the ending, I was just floored.
I am so glad I finally got around to reading it.
Although Going After Cacciato is a surreal counterpoint to The Things They Carried, it is every bit as eye-opening, visceral, and powerful as that masterwork.
And O'Brien can really really write!
This is definitely a book I want to reread and study a little more closely.
(Some stunning chapters throughout.)There are two narratives in this novel, one a trippy road novel laced with magical realism and one a gritty look (through flashbacks) at aspects of American soldiers during the Vietnam War. It all ends in an ambiguous ending that leaves the reader's head, already spun so many times over, spinning.
I read this book perhaps 20 years ago on my fathers (a World War Two vet with 'shell shock) recommendation. I could see why my father liked it and I probably read it partially through his eyes (I think the anxiety(PTSD) can be somewhat inherited by living with a veteran.In any case I liked the book a lot! Really well written, fascinating, heartbreaking.
In the beginning of the book, Cacciato decided to leave his unit.
When their lieutenant found out that Cacciato left, he ordered his unit to follow him.
The unit consisted of Lieutenant Corson, Paul Berlin, Doc Perret, Oscar Johnson, Stink Harris, Eddie, and Harold Murphy.
The unit voted on to keep following Cacciato, but the next morning Harold Murphy went back by himself.
The young women, Sarkin Aung Wan, told the unit that they were refugees and their village was destroyed.
It is a great book if the reader enjoys war stories.
