https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6708.The_Power_of_Now
I doubt whether I will ever take the time in my life to do such a thing, however the suggestion he offers that we all spend a ridiculous amount of time either worrying about the future, or dwelling on the past has impacted me in a huge way.
Tolle implores the reader to take the reigns of his own mind, focus on the beauty and love around him, just like we all did when we were children and the world was full of wonder.
Tolle suggest that we have the power to focus on this very moment, as it is the only one we really have.
I bet if we asked Eckhart Tolle why I felt that way, he'd say that I wasn't really listening to his message.My problems with the book were as follows.
Basically, he wants people to stop thinking so much.
I get the idea that as a culture we over-analyze and whatnot, but his message was basically to stop thinking all together.
He wants us to stop thinking for ourselves so that he can think for us!Sorry, back to reality.
Basically, I didn't feel like this book offered any real direction or advice to those who seek it.
The book opens with what readers of religious texts, the erowid archives and Huxley's The Doors of Perception will recognise as a classic mystical experience, epiphany or trip:"One night not long after my twenty-ninth birthday, I woke up in the early hours with a feeling of absolute dread...
§I am glad to have read the book, if only to have gained a greater understanding of contemporary popular New Age/spiritual literature.
If this book changed your life, please do not attack me but have compassion for my ligatures to mind and pain-body which impede my understanding of it.___This is (unfortunately) one of my most-liked reviews.
I would recommend this to anyone who is looking for the real meaning of their lives and to anyone who is sick and tired of the usual thing.
This was the reason why I didn't apply it in my life.
So without any real reason at all I started watching Oprah's videos about A New Earth and I remembered this book.
I started accepting what is rather than identifying myself with the ego.
But I can say that I am at peace because I aware of the workings of the ego and not identified with it.
So if you've had enough of the madness of this world I definitely recommend this book.
I read avidly all about OBE, reincarnations, karma, mindfulness, meditation practices and I try to make use of what I read in my everyday life.
So, of course, I was looking forward to this book, especially as it was recommended to me by people whose opinion I value.And my oh my, wasn't it total deception.
The next step will be to call him God and bring him your money because it's too materialistic for you anyway :) And actually it's not a joke - when you see how many people aggressively defend his "great teachings" and attack anyone who does not agree about the "incredible spiritual value" of this book...
Also on my bookshelf is a review of Tolle's THE NEW EARTH.
In that review I said he used 300 pages to say what he could have said in a 10 page essay.
I read this book because someone I know said it was great.
No, I did not buy it....the book is a loaner that I will eagerly return.The message in both books, in my opinion is exactly the same...live for today.
This guy is good at taking a cliche, wording it 43 different ways and calling it a book.Back in the mid-1960's....a group called 'The Grass Roots' said Live for Today in about three minutes.


like the fact that the word “God” is misused and By misuse, I mean that people who have never even glimpsed the realm of the sacred, the infinite vastness behind that word, use it with great conviction, as if they knew what they are talking about.
“I cannot live with myself any longer.” This was the thought that kept repeating itself in my mind.
Then suddenly I became aware of what a peculiar thought it was.
If I cannot live with myself, there must be two of me: the ‘I’ and the ‘self’ that ‘I’ cannot live with myself, there must be two of me: the ‘I’ and the ‘self’ that ‘I’ cannot live with.” “Maybe,” I thought, “only one of them is real.
كان تفكيري منصب حول ماهية الآن ..
ربما التجربة التي مررت بها كانت قاسيه لتجعلني افكر بحلول "الآن" ..
وهذا الكتاب كان بمثابة هدية من الله ان وهبني اياه بهذا الوقتطريقك للخلاص من الافكار والأنا التي تتماثل مع العقل لتتعسنا لترجعنا للماضي لتثبت اننا لانعيش إلا من بقاياه او بالمستقبل وكان السعادة ستأتي من خلال كذا وكذا ..
او من خلال الماديات او ماسيأتي في المستقبل ..
الكتاب بال 200 صفحة يحومون حول الفكرة التي مفادها كيف تعيش اللحظة وتنسجم معاها بحيث لاماضي ولامستقبل شكرا استاذي اكهارت ..
ملاحظة فقط :الترجمة للاسف ليست جيده ..
الكتاب لاشك انه عميق لكن الترجمة ظلمته ..
I passed this book dozens of times in my yoga studio back in 2003.
It was so popular and its praises so well sung by my yoga teacher, Steve Ross, that I thought it must be a bunch of new age mumbo jumbo.
I didn't want to read it because I thought that it would entail jumping on some Los Angeles hippy bandwagon.
I opened myself up to Eckhart Tolle after watching him on Oprah's Spirit Channel and I'm so glad that I did.
This book is really great.
It contains such simple philosophy that is so hard to practice in our Western society.
I've read a few books with similar messages about living in the present, being mindful, and grateful--it's a very zen-like message--but this book was different.
Tolle explains that we are not our thoughts.
"The very fact that we can objectively observe our thinking, he reasoned, suggests that the constant and often negative dialogue in our heads is separate from who we are."That's a quote I took from the interview between Tolle and Oprah from the May article in O magazine since I think it sums up the powerful message of this book the best.
Worse, he uses scare tactics stating we’re all in some kind of race to obliterate the human ego and the “pain-body” before they destroy the earth.
And all his arguments fall down in exactly the same way as every other new-age guru I've ever read with the classic '3 card trick' as a means of argument:1.
So when Eckhart calls you an idiot, it's not because he's an pompous idiot, it's because you have a idiot-complex that you need to evolve past, and he's here to help you see that!It's just not healthy to read books like this.
I recommend this book if you are into new age spirituality or not.
So, he is just adding his voice to the harmony.The way Tolle presents the teachings make intuitive sense to me and helps me make use of them.
There is no reality but the present moment, everything else is either a memory about the past or a fantasy about the future.I would hang out with Eckhart Tolle, and reading his books might be as close as I'll ever get.
I think hanging out with the little sprite is cool.
*shakes her fist at the ceiling fan*Anyway......I digress.Eckhart Tolle had an epiphany, or, a complete mental break depending on which side of the spiritual fence you sit on.
As a young man, Eckhart was all about the mind/intelligence.
But instead of taking the same route as his professor took, he heard someone or something say "accept everything", and that's what he did.
Everything that happens only happens right now......so dwelling on it or worrying about it just messes with your head, so try not to do it.If you find yourself in an intolerable situation, you have three options.
If you can't do either, accept the situation completely (at least for now).
I thought this book would further teach about how living in the now is so important, as present moment really is all we have.
say things like "you don't understand what I am saying"...
I was like "Hello, I didn't even say that so why am I reading a chapter on something "the book says" I don't understand.
Living in the present is so important, but the way it was written in this book was just not for me, it was simply as if I was being told what to do and any other way is wrong...
Otherwise, don't give it to someone else unless they are already actively seeking self-help/enlightenment advice.Honestly, I couldn't get past the first chapter of this book.
It's closer to the truth to say that he has a bad tendency to try to change people when they don't fit he pre-determined picture of how someone should think, act, and feel.
He tells you in the first few paragraphs that regardless of who you are or what your situation is, 'your life is terrible and you must change it...
and by the way, listen to me, 'cause I have all the answers.' I couldn't give the book much serious thought after that, but I did try.
Loy Machedo’s Book Review – The Power of Now by Echkart Tolle.Before I start thrashing the book, let me give you a few interesting facts.• The book was published in the late 1990.• Initially around 3000 copies were printed.• Oprah Winfrey the great influencer recommended this book in her magazine (did she even understand the book?)• After this debacle, the sales shot up to 3 Million Copies translated into 33 languages. (Its no surprise why every author wants Oprah to recommend their book).So let
Loy Machedo’s Book Review – The Power of Now by Echkart Tolle.Before I start thrashing the book, let me give you a few interesting facts.•	The book was published in the late 1990.•	Initially around 3000 copies were printed.•	Oprah Winfrey the great influencer recommended this book in her magazine (did she even understand the book?)•	After this debacle, the sales shot up to 3 Million Copies translated into 33 languages.
Now starts my Book Review.People like Deepak Chopra, Echkart Tolle, Joe Vitale should either be spanked until their bottoms become permanently so sore, that they should never be able to sit on their rear end or they should be hung upside down covered in a pile of stinking poo until they promise never to waste peoples time with their ‘woo-woo’ nonsense.
At one point he talks about curing health problems by something silly like resonating your body’s energy frequency or whatever.The question that came to mind is something he actually included (the book is written in a Q and A format).“Is there any scientific evidence to back this up?”His response, and I kid you not ladies and gentlemen: “Try it for yourself, and be the evidence.”Oh boy, shoot me now.Eckhart Tolle repeatedly makes unsubstantiated claims, and shows a clear ignorance of probability, the scientific method, critical thinking, and coming to rational conclusions.Don’t be a sucker.
This book is an excellent guide to shutting of your brain noise.
We let our brains run us mad most of the time, and never really stop to enjoy the space we are in.
Always dwelling over the past, or fretting about the future.
This book points out that the future is 100% unpredictable (so stop making up stories about what is going to happen when you have absolutely NO IDEA) and to stop worrying about the past because no amount of energy devoted to the past will change it.
Instead, be in the now; be present - enjoy what you have right in front of you.
Another one of those awesome, life-changing books!
یا هنگامِ شستنِ دست، به تمامیِ دریافت هایِ حسی مربوط به این کار توجه کنید: صدا و احساسِ آب، حرکتِ دستها ، عطرِ صابون و غیره»»..........
به نظرتون شعار دادن نیست؟ قبول کنید که فقط و فقط شعار و آرنگ هستشدر صفحۀ 107، میگه: ««راه صلیب، راهِ قدیمیِ روشنفکریست، صلیب به بهترین رویدادِ زندگیِ شما تبدیل میشود، به این ترتیب شما به تسلیم، به مرگ و به هیچ چیز بودن و الهی شدن وادار میشوید، راهِ صلیب یعنی روشن بینی از طریقِ رنج، مجبور میشوید دست و پا زنان و فریادکشان وارد ملکوت شوید»» .......

Eckhart Tolle is an excellent teacher. He teaches us a simple concept of living in the now and what happiness and blessings can be gleened from this practice. It is a very strait forward teaching but with Tolle's dynamic writing style he brings each page to life for the reader.I recommend this book to all.Yesterday is history;Tomorrow is a mystry;Today is a gift from God.That's why we call it the present.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Don't dwell on mistakes of the past or anxiety about the future.Meditation is good.Tap your subconscious for creativity.Self-awareness (being able to observe and reflect on your thinking and emotions as they occur) can be a powerful tool.Our ego gets in our way a lot.The Bad:All spiritual truth can be found inside yourself (he writes quite a long book and does a lot of lectures and workshops for him to really believe that)A number of misleading scientific "examples", especially concerning animals and spacetime (pages 24, 34, 99, 137-140)False interpretation of religious texts, especially the gospels (such as pages 95, 101, 105)Promotes belief in reincarnationThe Ugly:"The pain-body consists of trapped life-energy that has split off from your total energy field and has temporarily become autonomous through the unnatural process of mind identification.""You haven't yet grasped the essence of what I am saying because you are trying to understand it mentally.
(orignally written in 2006)Books were a major part of my gift giving this year and, being slightly amazon.com obsessive, I used their gift guides to inform my purchases.
Matter of factly, I thought to myself, "Hmmm, I guess I bought this for me." I don't consider myself new age-y at all and struggle with the terminology Tolle uses -- it's hard for me to get down with the "pain-body" and "portals" -- but I do understand the interconnectedness of all things.
It provided some tools for staying in the moment which, as my work life has changed and become more challenging this year, has been a struggle.
How Many time during the day have you caught you're self lost ?
how many times have U caught yourself 20 minutes later completely indulged in thoughts and carried away with emotions about things that exist ONLY in your head ?
Things that never happened , or happened a very long time ago ?
In my case , many many many times !This book will help you to look up , look around and realize how many times during the day you drift to " unconsciousness " ,or carry yourself around with absence , almost hypnotized .
All I can say is that this is a life-changing book! Truly awesome! Highly recommended to those who would like to improve the quality of their lives by realizing their “Being” through dwelling in “Now”. The past is past and the future is not here, and may not ever come.
Το μέτριο αισθητικά εξώφυλλό του, αλλά και ο τίτλος του παραπέμπουν σε φτηνό -νοηματικά- βιβλίο αυτοεξέλιξης, πράγμα που δεν ισχύει καθόλου.
Το καταπληκτικό είναι ότι όχι μόνο δεν αναιρούνται τέτοιου είδους συγγράματα μέσα από τις διαπιστώσεις της σύχρονης επιστήμης, αλλά επιβεβαιώνονται ως θεματοφύλακας παρελθούσας γνώσης που στο παρόν πλέον επαληθεύει την αξία της και πειραματικά (βλ.
Η ιδιότητα του παρατηρητή στο τώρα είναι αυτή που απαγκιστρώνει τον κίβδηλο εαυτό από το παρελθόν και το μέλλον.
Το πρίν και το μετά είναι που δίνει υπόσταση στη ληθαργική ξεχωριστότητά του εαυτού, κάνοντάς τον να νομίζει πως αντλεί την αξία του από αυτή τη σχέση (παρελθόν, μέλλον).
After having read this book, I think it qualifies to be read multiple times.
It really provides good essential tips to relax and just let go.
I never really understood what letting go of emotions and feelings, past and future and living the moment.
It's a pure mind declutter along with the Holy Book of your belief.
It made so much sense to just read through it and think of the moment.
Reading it multiple times would provide a cleanse and clearer perspective to certain aspects of daily life.
