https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105552.Mr_Brown_Can_Moo_Can_You_
Mr. Brown can make sounds like nobody's bizHis mouth is a cacophony of auditory jizzHe can grunt like a hippo or buzz like a beeOr mimic the pee stream of a hum-a-dung DeeHe puckers and blurts out sounds like a psychoWheezing more noise than a Cajun doing zydecoHe putters and sputters so much aural effluviaHe's developed a callous on his poor poor uvulaHe puckers and blurts out his onomatopoeiaHis irate neighbors equate it to sonic diarrheaLike crazed Mr. Brown, Dr. Seuss is sans peerBut this book's a comedown, for three-year-old earsIt seems like a quickie hacked out for the quick buckIf Mr. Brown could mouth it, he would say: suck suck(KevinR@Ky, 2011)-------[Addendum: Believe it or not, I've gotten shit for this parody.
WrensReads Review:This one is a read out-loud book! I LOVE THOSE! I want kids just to read to... ...that aren't actually mine. Because I'm not ready for someone else to depend on me.ANYWAY, another win for Dr. Seuss and all his rhymes! Sorry again for the mass update on these books. I just love Dr. Seuss.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
Adorable, humorous and endearing. Reading Dr. Seuss makes one want to become a child again. Recommended for children.
This book follows Mr. Brown as he makes noises.It is annoying for kiddosAnd adult readers tooI do not need a bookTo tell me to moo.This is a book I will not be getting for my children in the future, lest I get headaches.
Mr. Brown, lifelong resident of Whoville and local Dr. Seuss celebrity, was arrested early Monday morning on charges of sexual harassment.A woman, who goes only by Lala, alerted authorities last week that she had been cat-called by Mr. Brown everyday for the past week as he was leaving his house around 6 o'clock in the morning.The Whoville Times had the chance to question Mr. Brown on the accusations."I did nothing wrong," he explains. "I was merely mimicking the beautiful bird in Lala's rose bush."Mr. Brown is being held in the Whoville County jail without bail tonight.
This is a fun little book (literally - this edition is a very small board book), about all the noises Mr Brown can make and how wonderful he is at making noises, and encouraging readers to make them too.
Some of the onomatopeias are fun to make, like the cork and the horse feet, and others are tricky - the sound of lightning (which comes after the sound of thunder -- !!) is "a very, very hard" noise to make: "Splatt splatt splatt".
I can't make that sound like lightning, not at all!
My personal favourite is the sound of rain: "Dibble Dibble.
The cow, unlike Brown, is wide-eyed.
Mr. Brown hides behind a bush."How about you?" The first occurrence of the question.
Are you trying to get me drunk, Mr. Brown?Now, close-eyed, he stands on a horse.
But this is like no horse I have ever seen, Mr. Brown.
The rain comes later, and it makes me worried.For now, Brown eek eeks like a squeaky shoe.
Mr. Brown crows, his eyes still shut securely.
Brown stands on the page with legs wide, pelvis out.
Brown's eyes are still closed.
It is not Mr. Brown's hand.
OK, right off the bat let me set your straight: we own the hardback edition of this book with paper pages and the small board book edition.
All the while, Mr. Brown contorts his faces in funny ways that help him make these sounds, often to the delight of the subject he is imitating.
I'd recommend trying to imitate his facial expressions, too, when reading this book aloud to your kid because (a) it'll amuse the heck out of them, (b) it really does help you make the sounds, and (c) when was the last time you really stretched out your face?
.
Yes, I can fucking moo. Thanks for asking.
My husband does the sounds better than I do, but my daughter seems amused all the same.
Now, I typically like Dr. Seuss' works due to the fact that they are cute with adorable rhymes, and "Mr. Brown Can Moo! Can You?" is no exception to this rule. If I had one complaint to be made, it would be the fact that it was a little long and complicated for the age range that it falls under. I feel like this story went completely above and beyond my children's head, some of the sounds that were made could not be reproduced- there was just no way for them to be.
I see the influence of his book on many of our writers for children..
Fine concept, I s'pose; nice wrap-up ending, I s'pose.
Fun little book with lots of sound effect. So as a parent you better be up on what a owl, knock, thunder, and hippopotamus chewing gum sound like. Grace was very interested in me during this story since i was making a lot of different noises.
Mr. Brown can moo, you hear?All sounds he can go here!
Mr. Brown can make so many noises, including the sound of thunder, and I am convinced he is the übermensch.
Just i can say this book reminding part of my childhood...
This book does well with rhyming and sounds. I chose this book because this book always gets kiddos to participate in reading. It is a great book to open up kids to reading and showing them they can read some of the words as well.
A fun read with lots of sounds for little ones to join in with
In the time I have spent reading Mr. Brown, I could have read War and Peace.Caleb loves Mr. Brown.
In typical boy style he loves sounds (not real good about putting them together into words, but he can boom right along with Brown).This book is significant because it has impacted my life on various levels.
Shelving Dr. Seuss is frustrating, all of the books were the same size and shape and required alphabetical acrobatics (okay, not really, but they were annoying).
But shelving Mr. Brown opened me up to the wonders of THE FOOT BOOK and the Lorax.
I feel that young children and infants will love the rhythm and rhyme of this story as well as identifying with the items that are creating the noise.
It would also be engaging to make the noises with the child.
However, this book seems to be geared more towards sharing between the child and adult than to be perused alone.
The text wanders around the page in a hard to follow manner and the pictures are slightly abstract and might be difficult for an infant to identify.
Because of these drawbacks, I don't see this as a child favorite, but rather as a favorite book to be shared.
Mr. Brown can make any number of sounds with his voice except, evidently, human speech.
Along with such Seuss classics as "Hop on Pop" and "Green Eggs and Ham," this is one of those "must reads" to children.
The "Can you?" part of the title is really an invitation to the child or children to whom the story is being read to imitate Mr. Brown and/or the sounds he mimics.
Brown doesn't run for office at the end of the story or seek appointment to a cabinet post ("Secretary of Strange" would be in his wheelhouse).
This is one that I read to my class of 2-3 year olds when we were learning about Dr. Seuss in March.
They were able to participate in the story by making the same sounds that Mr. Brown makes.
He makes many different sounds from animal noises to silly made up words that sound like rain or something else funny.
Dr. Seuss is known for his use of made up words and phrases and for his use of bright and colorful pictures.
These both make for a great read for children and something that they will be able to easily remember.
Finally, the third top requested nappy time book. Mr. Brown can Moo. I know these 3 are not the most popular Seuss books, but we loved them. There really is something about the repetition of familiar stories that comforts kids & settles them down. Is Mr. Brown annoying? Yes, but only the first 20 times or so. Then it just becomes a bunch of familiar sounds. The Cat in the Hat was just nightmare creepy for us. Green Eggs & Ham? For some reason, Sam I Am never stopped being annoying.
Not sure what the fuss is about this book, my daughter proved very loudly that Mr. Brown isn't special and in fact she can do all the sounds he can do, I did like the sound a butterfly makes, but she soon went back to impersonating thunder.The book is quite short, very basic stuff, I guess it is teaching young children sounds, but in the style of Dr. Seuss he soon moves on to sounds other than animals.
When I introduced this one at toddler story time, about half of the kids excitedly announced that they had "that book" at home. (This always makes me nervous, because a) they know when I miss a word, and b) I know that I probably won't read it the "right" way.) But they were really into it until the very last page, when one little girl (who, yes, had this book at home) spoke up and asked if I could read the next book now instead. Eh, 26 (enthusiastic!) pages out of 27 isn't too shabby.
Dr. Seuss is known for writing stories filled with rhyme and rhythm, and often times a few wacky-words here and there as well. This book explores a new interjection; onomatopoeias! From cows, to clocks, to raindrops, and more, this story is filled with a lot of fun sounds. As a teacher, I would use this book to read aloud to a young class, or in a middle school language arts class to teach about parts of speech.
This has been a favorite since the first little guy was a baby. Who can resist listening to your parent moo or buzz?We've enjoyed this book throughout the years and even the bigger boys like to listen to it now. It can get really loud, and long, with all of us making the sounds.I think it would work as a beginning reader book as well, but some of the words are a little harder than the other Seuss books.
Just a bit of fun as I love Dr Seuss.Written apparently so that children would be able to learn about onomatopoeia and the sounds that they hear every day - well, almost every day!Cows mooing, bees buzzing, trains choo chooing, goldfish pipping (apparently when they kiss!) and so on.Delightfully illustrated as always and a pleasure to peruse.
