https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161915.Suddenly_Last_Summer
Mrs. Venable, an elderly widow from a prominent local family, has invited a doctor to her home.
Mrs. Venable is eager to “shut her up” once and for all, as she continues to “babble” about Sebastian’s violent death and “smash” her son’s reputation by hinting at his homosexuality.
داستان مرگ پسر جوانی، به‌ نام: «سباستین» است، که باعث روان‌پریشی مادرش می‌شود، و زندگی دیگر اعضای خانواده را نیز، از هم می‌پاشد.
سرانجام همسر، و دخترعموی او (تیلر) ـ که به دلیل اقدام به خودکشی در بیمارستان روانی بستری است ـ به‌ عنوان تنها شاهد، چگونگی ماجرای قتل عجیب «سباستین» را، به دست چند نوجوان، برای پزشک معالج خود، روایت می‌کند.
This one act play is set at Mrs Venable's house where her deceased son, Sebastian, had a jungle-garden, including carnivorous plants.
Mrs Venable is trying to discredit the testimony of Catherine, her niece, about her last day with Sebastian.
She is trying to persuade a doctor to perform a lobotomy on her niece so Catherine will never be able to speak about the events to Mrs Venable's high society friends in New Orleans.
After the doctor gives Catherine the truth serum, she tells the story about her cousin, a homosexual poet who met a horrible death in Cabeza de Lobo.Tennessee Williams had started psycholanalysis when he was writing the play.
I just thought it was okay. I was confused on certain parts and love others.
4,5 *Uma excelente surpresa!Uma pequena peça de teatro com muito conteúdo e bem interessante do início ao fim. Adorei, não fosse o final e teria dado as 5 estrelas. Uma espécie de thriller com muito suspense, num equilíbrio muito bem conseguido entre entretenimento e provocação para a reflexão. Incómodo e estimulante.Recomendo, lê-se em poucas horas e vale bem a pena. Quero ler mais títulos deste autor!video sobre esta minha experiência de leitura em:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hOH7c...post no blogue (inclui o video) em:http://linkedbooks.blogspot.com/2018/...
Weak but manageable, entertaining enough.
The setup is good, and we feel for Catherine and the plight she is in.
Only it’s too predictable, although that could be a question of setting since the concept is outdated for us modern readers.
It may have been innovative or original back then—to blame someone as crazy even though they may not be, just to cover up something...
it’s quite the horror scenario when one thinks about it.
It’s a one act play and very linear, which makes it a quick read without much complexity or subtleness.
Now, she wants to cover up the entire murder and to do this she wants to give her niece a lobotomy.
As the grand dame, she is more than willing to use her control over the money to persuade her niece's mom to agree to the lobotomy.Then there's her charming son, Sebastian.
As near as I can figure, its because she tells the truth about the murder she saw, and because she did not respond very well to being raped a few years before.
I doubt its realistic, but it suits the situation here.Catherine's mom and her brother are only concerned about themselves and the money.
What truth does Catherine say that must be hidden?
my ex keeps asking me what i love about this play, and i can never articulate it (so don't get your hopes up, here). perhaps it's its concern with involuntary, and incorrect, institutionalisation, or its brutal imagery; perhaps it's its meditations upon what it is to be a poet. whatever it may be, the work stirs many an emotion in me, corny as it sounds.
I watched the movie Playing by Heart and I understood the reference to this play, but I couldn't recall specific plot details, and it really bugged me.
However, I didn't re-read this play until I found out that I could see the play performed.
If you think you have a controlling mother, you really should read this play or see it performed.
You'll probably feel much better about your relationship with your mother.
Sebastian's mother is intent on hiding who her son truly was.
As much as I love seeing plays performed, I would advise that you read this one first before hitting the theater.
A psychiatrist, Dr. Cukrowicz, known as Dr. Sugar for short, also plays an important role.In its lyricism and control of language, "Suddenly Last Summer" is as much a poem as a drama.
She wants to have a lobotomy performed on Catharine and has invited the Doctor, a pioneer of the new operation, to the mansion.to examine the prospective patient with the lure of a large research grant if he agrees to perform the surgery.Mrs. Venable tells the story of a Sebastian who was reclusive, sensitive, chaste, and a poet who wrote one poem every summer and travelled in the company of his mother.
A young woman interned and threatened with this new radical operation meant to cut the madness out her brain.The madness being what she knows and the power she yields.The blond doctor trying to get to the bottom of a story that is without one.And of course Sebastian.
Mysterious and self destructive Sebastian with his poems of summer and his memory of the Encantas baby turtles hatched out of their mothers eggs on a beach running fleeing to the water while above the sky fills with blackness, a mass of birds, hungry for flesh.A disturbing, seductive play, perfect from start to finish.I won't soon forget it.
Brilliant play. complex characters. Lyrical language. Edgy. I'm excited to be cast as Violet Venable. No. She doesn't think she's a monster. She's just protecting her son. As any good mother would do.
Suddenly Last Summer is a blinding metaphor about the absent main character -- Sebastian Venable -- who in some Latin American beach city crossed an invisible line and paid for it with his life -- by being partially devoured by a pack of street children who chase him through the streets.The story is told by his "girlfriend," Catherine Holly, who has been committed to an insane asylum.
Sebastian's mother, Violet, wants to know what happened to Sebastian, but refuses to accept what Catherine -- having been injected with some truth serum -- tells her.
In the end, the attending physician, Doctor Cukrowicz, says it is just possible that the story was true.
Maybe my new favorite Williams. Short, beautiful, tragic, haunting, and shocking.
This play scared the shit out of me....and I loved every second of it
What a disturbing, fucked up play. I loved every second of it.My new favorite TW play. All of the stars.
Writing about stuff close to you is difficult, yet necessary in a way.
I try to suppress themes close to my family and the things that have happened to us, but they always find a way to resurface in my writing.
I don’t know whether Williams wrote about lobotomy on purpose or not, but I imagine it must have been very difficult for him, since his sister received one with disastrous consequences, leading to her subsequent institutionalisation.
Williams was a homosexual and there are loads of innuendoes about homosexuality in his works, Suddenly Last Summer being no exception.It is somewhat difficult to determine the main character of Suddenly Last Summer.
I don't understand what hate is. How can you hate anybody and still be sane? Yes, we all use each other and that's what we think of as love, not being able to use each other is what's -- hate. Didn't you ask me, once? And didn't I say that I didn't understand hate. A ship struck an iceberg at sea -- everyone sinking but there's no reason for everyone drowning for hating everyone drowning! is it, Doctor?
Leído para la categoría “A title that relates to a season” para ATY 2017 reject challenger.Una obra de teatro que se sitúa solamente en un escenario, o variaciones del jardín de la casa como se especifica en el comienzo de cada acto como descripción, y con un elenco pequeño de personajes.
Esta escrito bastante bien, las descripción de los escenarios y de la forma de presentarse de los personajes es bastante bueno y no da problemas al lector imaginarse perfectamente cómo se presenta la obra, lamentablemente la historia no me atrapo ni me importo mucho.
However, Tennessee Williams does a fantastic job of making you want to know what happened to the late poet in Cabeza de Lobo, and why Catherine is being held responsible for it.
The stage directions at the very beginning are absolutely beautiful;"The interior is blended with a fantastic garden which is more like a tropical jungle or forest, in the prehistoric age of giant fern-forests when living creatures had flippers turning to limbs and scales to skin.
The colours of this jungle-garden are violent, especially since it is steaming with heat after rain.
The plight of the poet, cruelly crushed by the harsh truth of a world or God too cruel for fancy or eccentricity, is the central tale here.
It is only the cruelty of the world, and the cruelty of his mother and Cathy in procuring for him, that inspire his annual poems.
With his own health in decline (is the world simply too much for him?), Sebastian becomes the sacrifice: better to die young than in decline like his parents.
And in that sacrifice, he becomes the beautiful, dead poet.
Plays generally don't interest me, so I purposefully selected a shorter one, by one of the only playwrights that I could think of offhand.
I was a bit shocked to realize that I actually was still able to get sucked into reading and finish the play in one sitting.
It was disturbing and brilliant.
I can't believe it came out in the 50s, I would imagine this subject material wouldn't be well received.
But a movie was made?
With Elizabeth Taylor and Katharine Hepburn??
Kind of feel like I need to watch that now...Book 38/50 for my personal 2015 reading challenge: "A play."
A short, yet powerful play, where the star is Tennessee Williams. Any writer looking for a terrific example of suspense needs to look no further than this macabre story. A textbook case for how to write tension, mystery, and horror.
Holy child eating mother of homo!
Suddenly, Last Summer- screenplay by Gore Vidal and Tennessee Williams ‘playA different version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/Suddenly, Last Summer is an exceptional film.It is included on the New York Times’ Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made listAnd all the elements needed for a masterpiece are in place:- A wonderful play written by the genius Tennessee Williams and a screenplay where he collaborated
and http://realini.blogspot.ro/Suddenly, Last Summer is an exceptional film.It is included on the New York Times’ Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made listAnd all the elements needed for a masterpiece are in place:-	A wonderful play written by the genius Tennessee Williams and a screenplay where he collaborated with Gore Vidal-	The director is exceptional and the cast is outstanding: Montgomery Clift, Katharine Hepburn and Elizabeth TaylorThe conditions are perfect and this tense psychological drama is rewarding, even if the suffering of the heroine is hard to watch at times.In fact, Elizabeth Taylor has won the Golden Globe for her performance and she was nominated, with her partner Katharine Hepburn for an Academy Award.The tagline of the movie is:-	Tennessee Williams shocks you again as he transports you to a STRANGE, NEW BOLD WORLD!From the beginning, we learn the plight of this state hospital where complicated operations are performed.A group of visitors is supposed to watch a splendidly gifted surgeon in action, but the light goes off while he operates.
Humanity DebauchedSuddenly Last Summer Sebastian Venable died a violent death in Spain and afterwards his niece Catharine, who accompanied him instead of his mother Violet, just would not stop saying nasty things about his demise.
Bad enough back in the day of the play, 1936, and the place, the Garden District of New Orleans, but add to it Sebastian’s dilettantism, his predatory instinct, and his willful use of his mother (cast aside when she became too old), replaced by pretty Catherine, as a magnet to attract young men, well then, no wonder Mrs. Venable wanted to destroy her niece to protect her son’s, and thereby her own, reputation.
My selection for a book with a season in the title was Suddenly Last Summer, a one-act play by Tennessee Williams.
It is a gripping play in Southern gothic.
Williams was perhaps at his most poetic with this play--the language is haunting as well as disturbing.
The play centers around Mrs. Venable, Catherine and Dr. Sugar.
Catherine was a witness to Sebastian's death, but his mother does not want the truth to be told.
Catherine's own mother and brother are willing to make her the victim in order to get the inheritance out of probate so they can survive.
Although I adore "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" and "Streetcar Named Desire" and have had the privilege of seeing both of them performed live on several occasions, this is my favorite play by Tennessee Williams. There is a heightened poetic mystique and gritty gruesomeness in "Suddenly Last Summer," which seems to set this play above the other two, if only slightly. I appreciate and thought all three were adapted quite well into films. I would love to see this one on the stage.
Suddenly, Last Summer is the evil twin of Glass Menagerie. Written fifteen years and countless hours of therapy later than his first play, Suddenly finds Tennessee exploring the theme: "Perhaps it was actual Mama who screwed us up so much and not Daddy like I wrote in Glass Menagerie?" It also contains some of his most lyrical writing. Having just read all of his major plays, this is unexpectedly my favorite.
Tennessee Wiliimans' characters are always rather appalling, but it's hard not to love them. This play is a little odd, because it seems to stop in mid-arc. The characters have their own (usually selfish) objectives, and I was sorry not to see how they played out. But the language is, as always, rich, and the play is worth reading.
I could visualize this on stage, and am sure it is riveting in performance. Lyrical dialogue while still remaining authentic. Callous characters! It is to be read and viewed.
