https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122968.The_Ugly_Duckling
I think this was the first time I'd read a novel solely about a woman making it on her own, and I found I liked it.Nell suffered a great deal before her transformation, but I loved her determination to exact revenge on those who started the suffering.
She wasn't about to be bullied, and she was going to use her new face and figure to her advantage, come Hell or high water.That she didn't need to put herself in mortal danger was never a consideration for her.
That she had no idea how to track down the people she was looking for, or how to go about getting the revenge she so desperately needed wasn't even a consideration.
I then passed it to a friend without telling her my opinion of it, telling her we'd discuss it after she finished; she then tortured her sister the same way.We were never able to figure out if Johanssen was writing tongue-in-cheek, or if she were trying to write seriously.
The plot is preposterous, the phonetic spelling of the accents of one of the characters hilarious, and to top it off, not one of the characters is really likeable in any way.
Just goes to prove that a book doesn't have to be good to sell well.
So the good doctor gets creative and decides to give our plain Jane a face better than that of Helen of Troy.
Till this I was completely with the author and was pretty sure going to give this one a four star but then as the story progressed I realized there was no particular reason for the face change.
The whole time I kept thinking she could have done all this things with her plain self why set up this elaborate plastic surgery ruse if you are not going to use the idea.
This was much better than I thought it would be. I didn't figure out the mystery til it was solved!
Iris Johansen, on the other hand, also sometimes has tendencies towards similar novels.The main characters, Nell and Tanek are all right.
Tanek is probably created a little in the likeness of Roarke from the Nora Roberts series, but he lacks a bit.
not really.The plot of this book is really strange, although to some extent typical for Iris Johansen.
The whole story resembles a scenario of an action movie, also in the absence of any realities.
I think I'd rather watch this book as a movie than read it.
The book held my interest throughout, I think partly I thought the writing style flowed well and partly because I wanted to find out why Nell was a target.
I thought the way these multiple men wanted to rape her was treated kind of lightly.
She actually went hiking in a swamp with them the day after the attempted rape incident, like it was no big deal.
And am I the only one who thinks Tania and Michaela seemed to be almost the same person, taken from the same mold?
I also thought the whole scene in the auditorium with the sword and the virus was just ridiculous and beyond belief.
I found the book somewhat slow as well as unrealistic. Characters were not relatable. Writing style was good though. Not my favorite book by the author. 3 stars
This book shouldn't have taken me almost a week to finish - but I just couldn't get into these characters.
One thing that Johansen seems to fall prey to in her books is too many characters.
I'm pretty sure she just chooses letters at random and arranges them to make a word!)I liked Nicholas, but I wasn't really a fan of the main character, Nell.
She was kind of an idiot, too - did she really believe that her husband wasn't paid off to marry her?
except for 2 of the books of her's i've read, she's involved some governmentally abc'd agency, if not more, in her plots, and they've not all been "clean" characters that are SUPPOSED to be protecting us and are SUPPOSEDLY setting good examples for us AND are "above reproach", like we'd hoped those "powers that be" would be!!!of course, in the other 2 books i read, the only reason it wasn't dirty CIA agencies was because of the time period.
oh, SO many books, SOO many authors, 8^) and SO SO SSOOO little time!!!
Iris Johansen has created and romance, mystery,and thriller all combind into one work of art.
Nell Calder tricked herself into believing she loved Richard.
Jill was and will always be Nell's life.
After Jill and Richard had died, she had no reason to live.
Plastic surgeon, Jeol Lieber, gave her what every girl wants: the swan at the end of every ugly duckling story.
Once again Tanek gave her a reason to go on.
Tanek took Nell under his wing and brought her to his secret place.
The two of them grew closer as Nell learned they both had been deweling on the same issue.
When Nell Calder witnesses the death of her daughter, she wishes only to die with her, but Nicholas Tanek who was there to protect her won't let it happen. Nell has spent her whole life as a plain jane living behind a frumpy facade. Nell gets a new lease on life getting a complete transformation along the way, the only goal in her sights is revenge on the man who destroyed her family.One of my favorite books. Nell is determined to not let anything stand in her way. A roller coaster ride of a story.
There were a few shocking, unexpected moments and towards the end I was sick with nerves for them at one point....couldn't stop reading then, that's for sure !!I did find Jill's vocabulary a bit too advanced for a 4 year old and there were a few apostrophe mistakes and the odd passage that could benefit from a comma.
Rint used instead of print, Thompson's and not Thomson's, waiver and not waver....I vacillated between 5* then 4* (due to those mistakes that were overlooked) and decided in the end to revert to the 5* as it did really keep me entertained the whole way through.
I chose this book due to needing a U book for an A to Z challenge and this one had such good reviews. I was not familiar with this author, and I am always looking for new authors, so I was excited to find this book. The beginning and end were engaging. The middle, sappy and dull. I didn’t even read the end carefully. I was so tired of the book I only wanted the gist of the finale. I just really didn’t care enough to want details.
....typical....unoriginal. ....sounded good but too predictable.....I like her writing style though and will read others.
I really liked this action filled novel. It only took forever to read because of work and now that I have my bearings I can enjoy reading again!!
The Ugly Duckling is a story of how a woman survives after being betrayed and then goes on a road to revenge the killing of her little daughter.Synopsis: If fate suddenly made you more beautiful that you ever dreamed possible, would it be the beginning of a fairy tale, or your worst nightmare?The brutal attack should have killed anybody, but Nell Calder did more than survive.
MysteriousI liked the two of them together and throughout the story I wanted them to find each other and be happy together…after each having such a sad and unhappy live before.There was a really nice touch with one of the secondary characters that Nell meets at a training camp…Peter Drake.
Nell's daughter and husband are both murdered that night and Tanek seeks to protect Nell and aid her to in order to find out why her name was on the hit list that he thought was bogus.
Nell is thought dead and Tanek hides her away at his remote ranch, he wants to protect her and unravel the mystery why she was on the hit list.
Once Nell recovers she wants to aid Nicholas in avenging her daughter and getting those killers.
I like seeing Nell transform herself from a polite, shy woman to a strong killing machine in order to avenge her daughter's death.
This book marks a turning point in Iris Johansen's writing.
She doesn't write romance anymore, publishing suspense/mystery books now.
Another good romance author bites the dust.
I enjoyed this book, but it focused on the suspense a little more than I liked.
It was still very good.
I liked the heroine's transition from passive to empowered.
I enjoyed the interactions between Nell and Nicholas and wished there was more of that.
I really don't like the plain jane stories with the drastic makeup.
All in all, a very good read, although it needed a touch more romance.
Iris Johansen is another of my favorites. The only problem I've ever had with anything she writes -- this book in particular -- is I don't get the chemistry between the hero and heroine. But that's just me. The romance aside, this is an excellent book with an excellent and surprising reveal. The surprise ending's makes Romantic Suspense good or bad IMO, and this one is really good. Didn't see it comming.
Dumb dumb dumb dumb dumb dumb dumb.Dumb. And poorly written. No character development, description, imagery. Also medically ridiculous in every way imaginable. I was so angry I was stuck with only this book. And that I chose to read it instead of just throwing it away and staring at the wall.
I've read this book so many times...it was one of my first revenge books...and this time around, it just wasn't what I wanted it to be. Nell really wasn't the strong, vengeful woman that I remembered her being...despite all of her words to the contrary, she relied completely on Tanek for her revenge. So disappointed!
This book was a fun read. The story was interesting and the main characters were extremely likable. Iris Johansen did a great job telling the story without bogging me down with useless details and unnecessary information. I really like her writing style. Will definitely read more of her books.
I usually don't like Iris Johanson, but this one got me from the beginning and took me till the end! I read it fairly quickly and enjoyed every minute. I liked the development of the characters. Yay for female heroines!
I was reading another book while at work one day at a gas station. An officer that frequented the store saw me reading and brought to me this book that he had just finished. It was my first Iris Johansen and definitely not the last! I love her! This book was amazing! I read it in one day!
I read this book while I was in the hospital recovering from an appendectomy. I've never had any interest in reading anything else by Iris Johansen so I don't know if I can attribute my enjoyment of this novel to the author or to my morphine pump. It was probably the morphine.
I read this book years ago and I could not put it down. Suspense was on almost every page. The only thing I didn't like was the detailed love scene. I skipped that.
Terrible book! The heroin is an idiot. She's all into vengeance. This book is more made for movie but a terrible one.
This is the book that got me hooked on Iris Johansen. Smart, detail oriented and suspenseful. Johansen is a master for making you feel the heroine's plight.
You’ve probably read a lot of books that go something like this:-We’re introduced to the good guy -The good guy has a young child that he/she loves -Young child is killed in an attack by a bad guy - Good guy swears revenge - Good guy gets revenge.There’s nothing wrong with such a story.
I never really found the plot believable, the characters were thrown together, and attention was paid to details that seemed completely unnecessary.
So wealthy that he’s having some sort of party at the beginning of this story with very high profile international people - the kind of international people that terrorists like to attack.
After reading 'The Ugly Duckling', I vowed to get my hands on as many Iris Johansen's books as I can!
For some unknown reason she's the target of a drug cartel and during the attempt on her life at a party on a Greek island she's disfigured and her husband and daughter are killed.
However, beauty alone isn't enough of a reason for Nell to go on living, but Nick gives her another, Revenge.This book marks Iris Johansen's shift from romance writer to a writer of romantic thrillers and it's worth the read.
