https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32505753-ash-princess
Is it better to have your life ended by someone who hates you or someone who loves you? Ash Princess has a heroine desperately trying to reclaim her stolen throne, a mindlessly evil tyrant who stole said throne, and a love triangle... What's that, you say? You've heard this one before? Yeah, me too. That being said, to give credit where it's due, it stands out for being compulsively readable and entertaining.Plot and character-wise, it resembles many other YA fantasies. But I was just complaini
I can't deny it is very compelling, though it relies heavily on violence, abuse and misery to keep us turning the pages.I'll spare you a plot summary - you can probably guess it anyway - and just say there's a rightful queen held captive by the conquerors of her kingdom who must assist the underground rebellion and reclaim her throne.
Instead, I’d compare it to Sabaa Tahir’s An Ember in the Ashes - both books are heavy on the violence, feature slavery as a theme, have a love triangle (sort of) and an evil tyrant driving the drama and action.
I hope you will not fall off your chair if I tell you that you have read this story before.Maybe once, or twice, or a hundred of times, but you most certainly have.
Girl wants kingdom back and boy helps her.
Now I don’t mean that I want Theo to crumble and turn to real ashes, but if my powers of prediction are correct, that is not going to happen.
Otherwise, there’s no story to tell, and so I don’t care to read the whole trilogy.
Though, was there potential to begin with?
ARC provided by Penguin Random House in exchange for an honest review.  “My name is Theodosia Eirene Houzzara, Queen of Astrea, and I will endure this.”  Friends, I couldn’t put this down. This was such an addicting and captivating read. This was the first book of 2018 that I read in one day, which is saying something because this book is almost 450 pages. I was just so invested with the romance, the rebellion, and the betrayals, that I couldn’t stop turning the pages. Ash Princess is Laura Seba
Ash Princess is Laura Sebastian's debut novel, which is a story about a girl named Theodosia (yeah, I’m going to be singing Hamilton all day after writing this review), whose ruling mother was murdered, and their land taken over by another kingdom when she was only six-years-old.
As I said above, this is a dark story about a girl who is forced to live among the people who ruined her life and killed her mother.
Like, that is my romance kink, 100%, and if you’ve read this book you’ll know what scene I’m talking about.
All of that ends when she's forced to kill someone and her childhood friend comes and offers her an escape and make things right for their people.
Hmm let's see, it sounds so much like Ruined, Red Queen, Falling Kingdoms (a lot of other YA books I can't think of right now), and the brutal world resembles a lot to An Ember in the Ashes.
This world is so fucking brutal and violent, a lot like An Ember in ashes.
There is mention of rape, slaves are treated horrible, people are always being killed, like in Falling Kingdoms.
Loved it!!! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
I mean, I actually thought it'd be much darker (omg I'm so sorry) aaand I loved the beginning and less so the end (Y U EXIST LOVE TRIANGLE) but it had powerful magic and freaking awesome world building and I am so there for this.
✓ It has a lot of "prettiness" in it to balance the horror of the conquerors.It's absolutely about a conquered nation, and Theo is basically a trophy, tortured daily for the crimes of her people but kept alive despite the horror she has to go through.
EVERYONE NEEDS TO READ THIS BOOK.
IT IS PHENOMENAL.
Theo is so strong, and actually a normal character who relates to things normally which i loved, felt i could relate to her a little better.
Magic, kings, war and spying.
i could barely put it down!
I'm so excited for the sequel already and i can't believe i have to wait another year!And I know it had a love triangle, but it was so believable for me.And the struggle, omg.
And the humiliation.
Theo reminds me a little of Tris from divergent but she is such a strong young woman.
I tore myself away from it, like one might tear a glob of gum from their hair, because that lamp would look so fucking good in my flat, next to the K-2SO figurine and the red thread pinned into the plasterboard and the giant snail in the tank in the living room.
It took me a while to get the mask home, because there wasn't enough room in my luggage, but some weeks later I was balancing on the back of the ugly pink armchair, one eye on the TV watching Kurzgesagt and trying not to press a push pin through my finger.
Please tell me "Prinz" is a typo in the synopsis and that it's not how they spell prince bc I don't think I could cope with that tbh xD-----------pssssstt i know it's german for prince now. thanks(:
Ash Princess by Laura Sebastian is the first book in the young adult fantasy series, Ash Princess Trilogy.
However ten years before Theodosia’s people were overthrown and her mother the queen was killed in front of her.
Ash Princess may have hints of the same type of young adult fantasy read as others before it but it was strangely enjoying to me regardless and I felt myself get caught up in the story as it went along.The writing in here seemed to flow rather easily for such a dark tale and had a compelling feel to it I’ve missed in other books of this type.
So glad I read this book. Really enjoyed the politics, magic and character in this one. I also could not predict what was to happen in the story. Something that is rare for me these days. Regardless if it took me a week to finish I would happily read this one over and over.
It reads like literally any YA fantasy book you've ever read.
Like, there isn't a single thing I can think of about this book that gives it its own identity.
Feels like it was made by a machine that figured out the algorithm to create the perfect cookie cutter YA fantasy novel, marketable and safe.I find it hard to believe that this is a 2018 release.
This book would've been somewhat interesting if it was released, like, 2013 or something.
I know in this book's case that's literally impossible, since the two love interests are of different ethnicities, but hey, it's YA.
"We are not defined by the things we do in order to survive." This book definitely helped pull me out of my book funk, so praise 🙌*Review to come*
I'm just going to open up and say this book is just a jumbo of every other YA fantasy book thrown together, especially Ruined by Amy Tintera, which is a book that I loved.
It also had Red Queen vibes.
I think if this would have been my first YA fantasy book, I would have probably liked it a lot more.
Also, throw in my most hated trope, sort of a weird love triangle, and you already have me annoyed.
Theo/Thora just kept on saying my people this, and I'm the queen that.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestIn YA, everyone piles onto the bandwagon of the latest trends. A few years ago it was dystopian fiction but now we've a glut of fantasy on our hands. As someone who loves fantasy, this should be a good thing, but the YA machine keeps churning out subpar, derivative works that are less good world-building and action-heavy plots than wallpaper fantasy settings for tepid romance.In this regard, ASH PRINCESS is no exception.I'm really annoyed a
did you just choose foreign words for ruler than sounded "exotic"), I was hoping that this would be a fantasy novel cast in the mold of THE WINNER'S CURSE, my ultimate favorite.The problem occurs when Theodosia is supposed to seduce the - cringe- "prinz," Soren, in order to get information about his people and their future plans for conquering before killing him.
Similar whining occurs when she realizes she may have to kill her best friend, the daughter of the evil kaiser's closest adviser and the man who whips her before everyone to punish her.Great choice in friends.The other side of the love triangle is Blaise, one of her own people who is involved with the revolution.
This dark YA fantasy is the debut novel of Laura Sebastian, it is the first of a planned trilogy.
Theo has put up with the horror that is her life, but when she is forced into unspeakable territory by Kaiser, it is the last straw.
She is smart and intelligent, this will take her far, and she is not alone, there are others who will do anything to remove the violent oppression under which they live.Sebastian does some intricate world building, and within the kingdom there are powerful caves with magical gems, although one has to earn the ability to use the gems.
I read in-between studying but once finals were done, I power-read the hell out of this book.Ash Princess is the story of Theodosia living in her country Astrea that has been invaded by the Kalovaxians.
Those include Slavery, torture, violence, abuse, mention of rape.As mentioned earlier, Ash Princess does carry the same trope as many other fantasy novels out there.
Still didn't like the love triangle, but I did have a good time reading Ash Princess.The Pros:I very much liked Theo as a character.
If you do enjoy novels where there are rebellions and lies with an engaging plot, then Ash Princess is definitely the book you want to read.
I ended up skimming towards the end so I left off a rating.I think this book had potential and could've pulled off all of the abuse, torture, and generally horrible world Theo faced, but it mostly turned into a super depressing & forgettable read instead.
That made it pretty hard to care enough to want to see her succeed.Otherwise, the story felt like a blend of a TON of other recent YA fantasy books.
I love those books and keep reading them for a reason.
eARC provided by Netgalley and publisher to read and review.
Thank you!!Tough review to write.
I think people will like this, but I personally...didn't.
She discovers a rebellion is underway with her people leading it and plots with them to take back her throne and escape.There is kind of a love triangle (or even square at one point - with Erik?).
Her best friend is a pampered noble who, in my view, treats her horribly.
Yet the MC insists she is a good friend.
However, it releases tomorrow, and I think others will like it more than I did.
All of this hasn’t broken her, but when one of her people is captured and she is forced to carry out his punishment, her resolve is broken and it’s the start of Theo rebelling against the cruel Kaiser who has kept her under his thumb for all of her life.Working with three other rebels, Art, Blaise, and Heron, she works to bring down the Kaiser from inside.
That really confused me, if I’m being honest.The only things that really set this book apart from others world-building-wise was the Spiritgems, the underlying religious aspects that come up, and the Kalovaxian culture that is introduced, specifically the Kaiser and his part in everything, as well as the Kalovaxian conquering of quite a few countries.
The characters all felt like ones I'd met before, and the story felt like one I'd already read many times.
The Magic system was the only thing that had slight difference, but it wasn't enough to make this book unique, or make it stand out from all the other YA fantasies out there.Hopefully the story will develop more, and become more unique in the following books, because I really enjoyed the writing, but unfortunately, the plot was just too samey for me to rate it any higher than I have.Rating breakdown: Plot: 2/5Characters: 4/5Writing: 4.5/5
3 1/2
This message isn’t especially for this book but for all the present and future YA novels: Stop using violence (such as whipping, burning or cutting off parts of the body) and slavery as a ground to create strong characters.
The book follows the story of Thora, Theo, Theodosia, whatever you wanna call her, whose Mother the Fire Queen was slaughtered in front of her eyes while her land was taken by the Kalovaxians.
It’s simple, a little slow-paced at the beginning but that changes throughout the book and it turns into a pleasant, fast-paced read.
Extras:This book has one of the best love triangles I've ever read.I’m out.P.S. The book is worth reading.
But I am the Ash Princess, a living joke.From the get-go, I want you to know that this book isn't very original.
Come to think of it, Ash Princess is reminiscent of Red Queen.
With all that said, you're probably confused why I gave this book a high rating.Basically, I enjoyed Ash Princess because it utilized some tropes in a way that did not make me feel jaded.
I won't tell you who's my bias; just know that my ship didn't exactly sail.Another thing I liked was Thora's character development.
Thora, like Mare, was having an identity crisis.
I have 0 feelings for this book. I don't even know how to rate it ;-;
2.5/3 starsThis wasn't horrible but the similarities to Ruined by Amy Tintera are so much that I am side-eyeing a bit. The plots and characters were almost identical. The romance played a big part in this book and it was so bland I ended up skimming those scenes. I probably won't continue this series since it added nothing new to so many YA fantasies I've read before.
never before have I needed half stars so much. because this ain't a one star, but it ISN'T A TWO STAR EITHER. oh and if you missed it, sign this petition for half stars: https://www.ipetitions.com/petition/h...:)) a good 'ol rant review is on the way, folks.
A lot.I went in expecting something fun, trope filled, and unoriginal.
I expected something mediocre.And yes, it was trope filled.
But it also wasn't mediocre.
Can I have the next book NOW please?!Plus the writing was good.
The river flows, pushing against a stone, even as it knows it won't move it.
Enough currents go by, over enough time, and even the strongest stone gives in.
Laura Sebastian has some talent, and I can't wait to see what she does next!Plus the plot, while unoriginal, was interesting.
This book was fun, fast paced, and I was very thoroughly invested.
They were really good- I actually really like Theo, and not hating the MC goes a long way to helping me like the book!- The pacing was slow, but it was even, and I wasn't bored.- I REALLY enjoyed it, so, I guess that's probably the most important thing?- I felt compelled to read this, it was a bit addictive- Plot twists were sparse, but they were AMAZING!- Let me just say again, the world-building was so good!Dislikes:- Love triangle.
I hate them with a passion.- Not enough plot twists.
I was expecting more from her.- It needed more plot.
Her understanding of the right thing to do and the course of action she must actually take begin to diverge, and the reader is forced to undertake some of the burden of the emotional repercussions of this.The magical elements were barely there throughout the first portion of this book but performed a larger, latter bearing on the story-line, leading me to suspect their significance to continually increase.
I adored the world and, as stated, the political intrigue but am anticipating my enjoyment of the next series instalment to be even greater, with an increased magical focus.
