https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29923707-one-dark-throne
Highkey hoping Joseph falls off a cliff and we never see him again. :)
WOW what a wild ride BOOK 3 NOW PLZ
Holy wow.So that brings me to this one.You guys, you are not prepared.
This story was so easy to follow, and before you know it, you're right there in the plot with the characters.
I think you guys will LOVE her in this book.As for Katherine, well, you guys know what happened to her at the end of the last.
I don't even know how to feel right now.Omg. How could I forget Jules and Camden?
There is SO much potential there but she's as much a main character as the three queens now, and I LOVED that.
The pacing was much better than book one in my opinion and I feel the increase in significant events and a stronger storyline were big assets to this novel.
My engagement with the second installment of this series is miles stronger than that of book one, and I couldn’t be happier with the shift in my personal reading experience.Due to the character development of all the queens, it’s interesting how I can’t fully root for just one of them.
I also grew to like Jules more and while I feel I *should* despise Katherine, her storyline is so fascinating that I can’t help but sort of love her now-morally grey character.
Crazy right?The Sister as GIFs  Katharine:  
Because you're so irresistible?" "No. Because you don't like anyone." Arsione snorts."I do like you, Junior." "Oh?" "But I have more important things to think about right now."   Honestly, I love their banter and conversations.
They clearly love each other, but their romance in no way stands in the way of them doing what is needed of them.
Pietyr & Katharine   "He does not love you like I do.
Pietyr, despite his rather unforgivable actions in the previous book, is determined to prove to Katharine that he truly loves her.
And Katharine, though she denies it, has never truly stopped loving him.
"'Once, I was a mouse,' she says and strips off her glove. She reaches into the cage to stroke the rodent's tiny bald haunches.'But I am not anymore.' Since this worked out so well last time:After the bloody events of the Quickening last book, one would be forgiven for expecting, nay, anticipating murder, mayhem, and violent mind games this round. One would expect the queens to focus tunnel vision-like on the prospect of winning and continued existence....Right? "Not as beautiful as that." Nico
Since this worked out so well last time:After the bloody events of the Quickening last book, one would be forgiven for expecting, nay, anticipating murder, mayhem, and violent mind games this round.
(hide spoiler)]As someone who's writing a thesis on literary doubles, it gets frustrating when the duality between Nicolas (Katharine's new suitor) and Pietyr are presented with the subtlety of a knock knock joke.
(view spoiler)[Katharine's newfound darkness, as it turns out, is the result of weird malevolent magic.
One Dark Throne largely foregoes stream-of-consciousness narrative (inner thoughts/monologue, simply put), so it's hard for me, personally, to relate to these characters.
I really love this series!
Actual rating: 4.2⭐Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐The story was good. It wasn’t a slow story anymore, there was always something happening, but I finished the book and kind of forgot everything (except Billy, duh). And I thought there would be more of a cliff hanger? 🤷🏻♀Characters ⭐⭐⭐⭐Let’s describe the characters in the second book: Jules is a cool badass, Arsinoe finally knows that she’s a precious strong queen, Katherine is a crazy head (but remember her ending in the first book, no surprise at all), Mirabella wa
It wasn’t a slow story anymore, there was always something happening, but I finished the book and kind of forgot everything (except Billy, duh).
(I don’t want to spoiler you, but she’s crazy) Relationships ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Joseph finally decides who he loves (Hooray!
🎉), Pietyr has weird loyal kind of love and Billy is my favorite gorgeous to-be-king ♥️And don’t forget the love of sisters 😍Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I like Kendaras writing and I will probably read the other books she wrote.
That was a lot like my experience with Three Dark Crowns where I had a hard time getting into the first bit, was interested enough in the middle to keep going, and then LOVED the last 30% SO MUCH.I think it was just really hard for me to initially get at the story through the present tense writing.
This plot picks up where the first book left off (so I won't spoil anything) and focuses mostly on the three sisters making alliances and trying to kill each other.
I have no idea why but I seriously love this world and its characters! I gave the first book 3 stars because it was pretty good but kind of slow. This second book I could not put down. I loved it! I see a lot of mixed reviews on it and that's ok because I can see why some might struggle with it. However, I was truly entertained and look forward to the third book next year!
4.25/5Loved this much more than the first!
Ich fand den Schreibstil wieder klasse, genau wie die vielen verschiedenen Blickwinkel aus der die Geschichte erzählt.
Auch fand ich es nie verwirrend wer grade erzählt auch wenn der POV manchmal mehrmals im Kapitel wechselt.
Die Plottwists waren auch echt wieder krass, grade am Anfang und am Ende sind viele Sachen passiert mit denen ich nicht gerechnet habe.
Also zusammenfassend gesagt: bei diesen Büchern passt einfach alles, auch die Mischung aus Action und Liebe.
Auch wenn mir bei beiden Büchern einfach noch ein kleines bisschen mehr zu vollen 5 Sternen gefehlt hat.Und Leute!
30 Sep. '17 goodreads | Review of Three Dark CrownsThis book was all over the place, and I say this with great sadness. I wanted to like this more than Three Dark Crowns; unfortunately it was the other way around. And I didn't even find TDC particularly great.There will be some spoilers here; the more "serious" spoilers are marked, but still some unmarked ones as well, so be warned.I say "all over the place" mostly in terms of internal consistency. The characters say one thing yet do another. T
(and no, it's not because he is her familiar and she has a natural connection to how it feels - it's already established since Book 1 that their "bond" is the result of an unnatural low magic).The second quote is taken from a scene where every other paragraph is written in close 3rd person POV with Mirabella as its main character, and the shift into Bree's thoughts just threw me off.Otherwise, the narrative was serviceable.
RE-READING THIS ART. Buddy read with Chandlaaa✨I AM CRYING AND SCREAMING AND I CANT BELIEVE THAT I HAVE TO WAIT FOR A YEAR FOR THE NEXT BOOK. DO NOT TOUCH ME IM EMOTIONAL
1/03/17: I think I remember reading from one of the comments below that wouldn't the previous queen know who she gave birth to and which kids had which powers?
Causing the other provinces wanting to have their queens to win (Naturalists and Elementals) because they think the Poisoners are corrupt.So to guarantee that the Poisoner Princess would win, the former Queen had hidden her with the naturalists and kept it a secret so that no one knows.Then the queen must've have sent Kat to the Poisoners-deeming her the weakest daughter-and hoping that the poisons would weaken her or even kill her.
Again, another slow start and things don't really pick up until about halfway through but HOLY MOLY the second half was SO. GOOD!
More with their eyes than with their hearts.”🌟 One Dark Throne is the book that we wanted Three Dark Crowns to be, I think Kendare took the advice of readers and made it more action packed, more thrilling and definitely darker!🌟 I want to focus on the positives this time because I think there were quite a few.The writing style is as good as the first book, If you liked it first time then there is no reason why not to do so again.🌟 The Characters were a bit confusing in book 1 because there were many characters.
The Queens, their powers, and just the overall concept of the book is amazing.
The plot of this book is fabulous and the ending was amazing.I'm so glad that there are 2 more books coming and I can't wait for them.
The wait for this one was unbearable and for the next ones more so.If you have read the last book and liked it then read this one, don't put it off (the book is amazing-have I said that before).
I started reading it in the morning and didn't put it down till I finished it, this book undoubtedly gets 5 stars from me just like the last one.
Well, One Dark Throne was certainly much better than its predecessor—though that’s also not that much of a feat to accomplish, to be quite honest—and I’m actually looking forward to book #3 in this series, so I guess something clicked with me here. (rtc)buddy read with 🦊Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
Jules was a little too overprotective at times, but I liked her friendship with Arsinoe.
Even though I had a pretty good idea who Katherine was talking about when she mentionned that "They" supported her, I still enjoyed that plot twist.
Since I tend to prefer plot driven books I would have liked more action, but my connection to the characters kept me invested in the story.
Im really excited to find out what happens in the next book, especially with Katherine and Jules plot line.
You should give this series a try if you like character driven stories with killer endings and an awesome world.*Received for honest review consideration*OMG!
When I first read the premise for Kendare Blake’s Three Dark Crowns I was immediately enthused.
Triplet queens forced to murder each other in a winner-takes-all competition?
Being forced to wait for One Dark Throne has gotta be the most exquisite torture known to man.
Forget waterboarding, Guantanamo needs to hand out copies of Three Dark Crowns and then force prisoners to indefinitely wait for the sequel.
She’s still Mirabella-ing but at less intensity.
Arsinoe is a happy medium between feisty Katharine and insipid Mirabella.
One complaint I read about Three Dark Crowns was it’s a little slow to start.
One Dark Throne is the opposite.
The first few chapters did not hesitate to jump right into the plot, picking up where Three Dark Crowns left off.Given that the three queens are now determined to kill their way to the throne–a huge turnaround from the first book–I was expecting a lot of action and death.
I’ve read books/series that did not hesitate to kill off characters ( A Song of Ice and Fire,  Falling Kingdoms, etc.), so when you read a book that cops out or at least prolongs it until it’s practically unbearable, it’s frustrating.Despite this, I still enjoyed the book!
It felt more like a rough plan for the beginning of a story than an actual published book - the characters weren’t particularly fleshed out and, despite all their threats and plans, nothing much happened.
Unfortunately, One Dark Throne is just as frustratingly slow-paced and illogical as its predecessor, and Blake’s saving grace, her queens, felt as flat and lifeless as the rest of the cast in this instalment.
Now that the sequel is almost here I can read this one without having to experience the cliffhanger for long. Can’t wait to see my favorite (Katharine) be a badass.
I can’t count how many times I was literally praying to the Lord please oh please don’t let any of these queens-who-are-born-just-to-kill-each-other die or their friends-who-help-them-kill-each-other.
I still love all of these queens, even though I don’t agree with the turn their character takes.
We have my favorite, Arsinoe (Naturalist [assumed]), who isn’t ashamed of the huge marks on her face and who has the upper hand with the discovery at the end of the book.
The War Gift is basically someone who never misses and can memorize things really well.
This series has become one of my favourite ones. So freaking exciting and action packed book which is full of plot twists and shoking revelations. Also all the characters are so amazing that I don’t know who is my favourite?! I need the next book ASAP
It is probably due to the amount of time the characters spend caught up in mundane drama, most revolving around their love lives.
The fact that this series is championed for its characters continually boggles my mind.
Arisone and Billy were literally the only characters I cared about.
I know it is slightly more complicated than that but it felt like Blake kept them together just to create drama between her, Joseph and Mirabella in otherwise dull plot points.
I still liked Arisone and Billy but all of the other characters irritated me, particularly Jules and Joseph.
Review below ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐A lot happened in this one. The world building that was most of Three Dark Crowns pays off here in the second volume where no one stays still and the action is constant. You really feel the dark part of why this is called dark fantasy. This one also has a character guide in the beginning to help out those that have trouble remembering the characters. I read it to make sure I had no one confused and was good. Lots of characters don’t bother me because I am also a mystery lover w
I read it to make sure I had no one confused and was good.
Really it’s not that bad, especially with the guide.
None of the queens behave like they are told nor as they should according to tradition or are predicted by their patrons.
This is a good thing for us and a bad thing for us, depending on which queen you root for.
I had to get the last book right away.
This one has the action!
* runs around flailing and screaming like a muppet...
mouth agape *Edit******** Done Flailing muppet style.
Each of the sisters is born with a magical gift and has a right to the crown and becoming Fennbirn’s next queen but in order to rule they must kill their siblings.The three potential queens were raised separately and are now coming upon their sixteenth birthdays at which time the battle for the crown begins.
Mirabella is a  elemental, Katharine is a poisoner, and Arsinoe, a naturalist but each has to master their suspected skill and then conquer the others to take the crown.This second book picks up again from the ending of the first and it's best to read the series in order as jumping into this fantasy series probably would not make sense.
I just don't care about her, there's no detection of vulnerability about her.Seeing Mirabella and Arsinoe teaming up to fight Katharine wasn't fair.
I would have loved to see three of them fighting against each other individually or three of them teaming up and prove to the ones who think that there should only be one queen is wrong.I can't belive how Jules forgave Joseph that easily, they may be best friends for almost their entire lives and been in love with each other for quite a while, but if I were Jules I wouldn't have forgiven Joseph at all.What I expect from the third book:More actions/duels/battles between the sisters.
