https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/979768.Winter_Holiday
Such is the power of this gentle winter holiday adventure about a group of children turning a frozen lake into a vast unexplored Arctic, theirs to discover, that in the midst of one of the hottest summers on record, I looked up from the page out the window, saw the overcast sky, and quite seriously wondered for a moment if it was about to snow.This, the third book of the Swallows and Amazons series (I do not count Peter Duck since it is a "made-up" story, and not something that "really happened"), is perhaps the best.
"If only they had any sense," said Susan. "But they haven't got any, not that sort. People oughtn't be allowed to be brought up in towns." Another delightful adventure with the Swallows and Amazons. This time they are joined by Dick and Dorothea who are visiting Mrs. Dixon, their mother's former nurse, for the winter holiday. No high seas adventures this time. Instead there is ice skating, blizzards, igloos and a polar expedition.Everything we have come to love and expect from this series was present and accounted for.

The "D's" (Dick and Dot Callum) are introduced in this book.
The kids are there during winter break and thanks to Nancy getting Mumps, get an extra month to their break.
Being winter time, there isn't much sailing, but being this crowd of kids, they manage a kind of sailing anyway over the ice.
A few things in this one are rather hard to believe such as Uncle Jim coming home unexpectedly to find the kids have eaten up all his extensive supply of food and being fine about it.
This may be my favorite in the series.
In this book, new characters are introduced: Dick and Dorothea, siblings who are not as outdoorsy as the Swallows or as intrepid the Amazons (and thus quite appealing to armchair-type readers).
At first they are too geeky to fit in, but eventually are valued for the contributions they add to the group: Dick as the unassuming but brilliant scientist and Dorothea for skills I don't recall - perhaps her practical good nature.
Out of the three that I've read of the series so far (I skipped over Peter Duck), I feel this one is the strongest.
The mixing of new characters with codes and adventure make for an exciting read that also inspired me.If you want to introduce a friend or relative to these characters but fear the technical sailing talk in 'Swallows & Amazons' is too much, you should try this book.
This allows someone who is just introduced to this world to be enveloped into the exploits of these children without feeling they are missing anything.
Igloos! Ice skating! The Lake being frozen 'from end to end' for the first time since the 1890s! The introduction of Dick and Dorothea! Furthest North, sleeping on Captain Flint's houseboat, Nancy's mumps and of course, the Race for the Pole. Top stuff.
The book is beautifully written, and is a paean to imagination: not just the writer’s feat of imagination in conjuring up such a heartening story, but the joy of children’s imagination, with all the young characters delighting in creating alternative fantasy explanations for the world around them.The Swallows fond themselves back in the Lake District where they have been despatched to stay with the Jackson family for the last few weeks before they return to school while their mother has taken their baby sister Bridget out to visit their father who, as a naval officer, is currently based in Malta.
But I had forgotten just how brilliant it is.In this book Ransome introduces us to Dick and Dot. I love Dot, particularly her way of turning everything into a novel - practically any situation she's in, is rapidly summarised as the title of a book and the first line of chapter one, and that's one of my habits too.
It is superbly done.Most brilliant of all is, of course, Nancy still managing to run the show even when she's shifted off-stage thanks to mumps.
Peggy does come to the fore a bit - she's certainly trying hard - but, even confined to bed and running a temperature, Nancy is the leader.
Children going off and having adventures by themselves, or in this case sometimes with Captain Flint, and getting into all sorts of trouble.Like the famous five it is very much a book of its time with a certain amount of innate sexism (the girls are there to do the cooking etc) bit less so I think than the famous five.I don’t think this would be my favourite book of the series, although Dick’s character’s fun, I’m less fond of Dorothea, it almost seems like she was added to the story to show what real ‘little girls’ are like, to highlight how much better Susan, Nancy etc are.There’s also quite a lot of hanging around in the book.
Arguably one of the best ever books for children and proof if it were needed that Ransome was indeed a master storyteller
Not as good as previous books in the Swallows and Amazon series..
A thoroughly charming YA novel from 1933 with wonderfully imaginative child characters!
Also, for the first time, Ransome really fleshes out the "natives", or "eskimos" as they are known in this book.
Nancy Blackett, THE most dominant Ransome character, is in a single move, pushed off-stage, taking no directly active part for much of this book.
Apart from Susan, who, as usual just worries and cooks (although I acknowledge that Susan is critical, as she plays the counterpoint to Nancy's piratical enthusiasm throughout the series - without Susan, the children would just appear as badly behaved yoofs to the natives).The story itself reveals itself slowly, although crucial seeds are planted early by Ransome, in a clever piece of writing.
I'm working my way through the Swallows and Amazon series in an effort to understand what makes them enduring childhood favorites.
As a story, it has plenty to delight -- snowy adventures, real peril, and lots of ingenuity in the face of nature.
What's also fascinating is what is completely taken for granted as a basis of the story and which no longer hold true: the dangers of mumps, the necessity of quarantining the children, and the idea of an enforced month-long vacation because of the need to avoid returning the infection to school.
Delightful.
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
Another ripping adventure for the Swallows and Amazon's helped(and hindered) by their new chums the D'sGrand read,captures the spirit of a magical long ago Winter,packed with friendship,fun and no little danger.Swallows and Amazon's forever.(and the D's).
Just read this for the third or fourth time. Just homely lovely read but very interesting on history of big freeze in the lake district when Windermere froze over. So frozen in 189 - something a horse and carriage was driven across the lake.
From the 5yo: This is my favorite, best, best! Also: "Nothing remained but a puff of steam, a good smell, and a perfectly round hole in the ice. The hotpot was on it's way to the bottom of the lake [peals of laughter]". -end of chapter 6.
Another “Jewel” in the Crown of the Swallows and Amazon’s series! Very creative , imaginative and exciting adventures for a slightly extended winter holiday! Fast and enjoyable read, even for adults! Highly recommended!
Argh it ends so abruptly! That same wonderful, evocative storytelling that we've come to expect from Ransome...our whole family enjoys these stories. We could feel the chill of the ice and driving snow even in the heat of summer here and can't wait to carry on with the next book!
Best one so far. Changed things up a bit with two new characters and winter adventures. How cool to be able to ice skate across the lake they normally sail on, clear over to the islands.
Again, charming as the others in the Arthur Ransome series - heartwarming.
To revisit the land of Swallows and Amazons, what can be more like a winter holiday? Next time I'll read this aloud to my kids!
V - LDPlaceholder
Cute book, an enjoyable story about the creative imaginations of a group of children enjoying the winter months.
4.5?
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.Winter Holiday is the fourth book in Arthur Ransome’s Swallows and Amazons series, and the first one not set during summer vacation.
There is just one problem - Nancy, the usual leader of the group’s expeditions, has the mumps, and they must do without her spirited guidance.The most impressive thing about this series is the way Ransome is consistently able to reinvent the Lake District setting to make it seem new for each adventure.
By introducing Dick and Dorothea, city kids with no real camping or sailing experience, the reader gets to see the familiar world of the Swallows and Amazons through fresh new eyes.
This book is the 4th in the "Swallows and Amazons" series, and is a great favorite of ours, especially in the winter as we too dream of sailing over an iced over lake searching for the North Pole!In this book, two new children are introduced, Dorthea and Dick Callum.
The lake has iced completely over, and a race to find the North Pole is started.
Will Dot and Dick be able to come up with a viable sailing sled?
And what happens when a mixup about signals sets the race off prematurely?!How disaster is narrowly averted and turned into an exciting conclusion, you'll just have to read for yourself!So far, I have enjoyed how the children are real children.
This was a book I was given while recovering from an operation when I was 12- and have had it in my collection ever since but never got around to reading it-until now!
I am intrigued to know why I passed on this- aftre all I was certainly one for reading children's adventure books- Famous Five et al.
It was a likeable book- and recalls a more carefree time when chldren could get up to a lot more adventure in the open air without parents being concerned- and when there was a more simplistic attitude to making your own entertainment without the TV, computer or lure of the shopping centre.
