https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762101.Ralph_S_Mouse
I just couldn’t resist.
I just couldn’t.
When I saw my favorite mouse, Ralph, waiting for me, I just had to abandon all other reading.
In the last of the series (sob), Ralph grows up, escaping to a school, and learning all about the indignities of education.
Funny, whimsical, and utterly cute, this series has captured my heart entirely.
But well, I was also utterly chuffed that Ralph gets a little car in the end.
A mouse with a car.
Smile.PS: Thank you, my friend, for not making me wait another year to read this book.
Ryan, a small boy that lives in the hotel with his single mother is one of the few people that can hear and understand Ralph when he talks.
Ralph one day gets Ryan to take him to school so he can start a new life there, but finds out it's not a place for a mouse like him.
The overwhelming life of a classroom isn't as thrilling to Ralph, especially when his motorcycle gets broken by one of the kids.
I think that girls and boys could read this book and like it just as much as I did.
Mouse was smart enough to run a really hard maze.
Ralph got his name from Ryan because he was smart.
One of Ryan's classmates asked him, "What's his last name?" and he answered, "Mouse."Ryan's classmates were writing poems about Ralph S.
One of Ryan's classmates had a poem.
Brad wrote this poem.
The End." (It's not a very good poem either.)Ralph S.
Mouse went up the pant leg of Brad and stood on his shirt and looked straight at him.
And you broke my motorcycle." And then Brad came one day to school and gave Ralph a sports car.
This one was a definite improvement on Runaway Ralph. The story came to a satisfying and cute conclusion, not lingering on inactive sections too long and spurring on character development in a believable way.
Challenged by a student this past week to read what she was reading, I enjoyed this book, and had forgotten it since last reading it years ago. An enjoyable read, great for young readers, lots of fun and a few lessons along the way as well.
A lovely re-read of a cute little children's book I've always liked. :-)
It was cute, but I did not like it as much as the first one.
(stands for Smart) Mouse and his family are in danger of being discovered and exterminated, so he comes up with a plan -- he convinces the housekeeper's son Ryan to take him along to school, where Ralph can broaden his horizons and gain more education and keep the hotel staff's jobs secure.
But I laughed and sighed and gasped (!) and generally had a good time.Ralph's story comes full-circle in this third installment of the series.
As a mouse and as a character he has come a long way, and even though he's still Ralph S.
Plot When midnight struck at a hotel way up in the mountains, a mouse named Ralph came riding out of his hole on a motorcycle.
He thought hard about how to keep his motorcycle from his relatives.
While at school Ryan got caught with Ralph.
The class decided to do a project on the things mice, like Ralph, do on a everyday basis.
After the project they would have Ralph run a maze.
I think it would be hard for younger kids to understand this book.
It's a great book and I think every kid should read it.
We apparently read these books out of order! This was a fun book to read with my youngest. He's really enjoying the antics of Ralph. The school adventure was a welcome one.
I got this out of the library for my 1st grader.
His teacher had read the story to the class over the period of a week or so.
He loved the story so much, he wanted to read it for himself.
So, we got the audiobook for him to listen to in his room.
After completing all the audiobooks I had on my iPod, I decided to listen to his story too.It was really cute.I can see why he liked the story so much and it gives me reason, once again, to be amazed by Beverly Cleary's talent.
All in all things are not going well at the Mountain View Inn. So Ralph persuades his young pal Ryan to take him to school.
Ralph is an instant hit with Ryan's classmates.
Worst of all, Ryan gets into a fight with a classmate, and Ralph's precious motorcycle is broken.
A Mouse with an attitude - and a bit selfish to boot.
Ralph is not real endearing as he won't share, won't cooperate, and clearly has a one track mind - getting his motorcycle back/fixed.
Kids will like the idea of a motorcylce riding mouse that talks, but couldn't he be a bit nicer?
I don't know how it happened but a few days ago I realized this is one of only two or three of Beverly Cleary's books that I had never read so...off to the library I went to pick this one up.It was really good.I probably would have loved it as a kid and I still really enjoyed it as an adult.The third book in the adventures of the mouse and his motorcycle.Funny and touching at the same time.Pick it up. Read it yourself. Read it to your kids.
Not as good as the first two but a nice ending to the series.
I love books by Beverly Cleary - read them as a child and love reading them to my students. I’m trying to decide between this book or THE SUMMER OF RILEY by Eve Bunting. I want to start the year off reading with my students. Which book do you think I should begin with?
Read aloud to my 7-year old. His star rating.
A couple weeks in of my first ever job, as a support teacher for first grade at an elementary school, I realized I had access to a library full of children's books for the first time in four years.
But the book I jumped on was this, the sequel of a book I've held dearly in my heart for more than a decade, since my own time spent in elementary school, The Mouse and the Motorcycle.

Synopsis: "In this third and final Mouse novel from Newbery Medal-winning author Beverly Cleary, Ralph heads to school to see what humans do all day .
He convinces his human friend Ryan to take him along to school, where Ralph instantly becomes the center of attention.
What if he's not as clever as he thought?"My Review: This is another great book that has stood the test of time and will continue to do so.
In the previous book Ralph ran away, something older children and middle grade kids may have contemplated.
All in all a very fun book and a great book to wrap up a trilogy.
Ralph and his little cousins make a mess at the Mountain View Inn. Ralph decides that it would be better if he left the inn.
Ralph gets mad when the class tells him that he has to run in a maze, and Ryan won’t give him back his motorcycle until he runs the maze.
Ralph’s motorcycle gets wrecked when Ryan get in a fight.
Ralph is a very nice mouse who loves to ride his motorcycle.
Ralph is a very smart mouse.
I would recommend this book to little kids because it is very easy to understand and it has a great message.
Beverly Cleary's books about a smart mouse who rides a motorcycle are fanciful and a little strange, and though I enjoyed reading the story, I tend to prefer when Ms. Cleary writes realistic situations. There's nothing wrong with writing fantastical situations like talking genius mice--I'm a fantasy author, I know!--but I think the author's major strength is creating recognizable, relatable situations that children see themselves in, and this more whimsical presentation of a mouse protagonist meant that, while it was funny and different, I was missing the spark I usually look for in her writing.
The final entry in the Mouse trilogy is probably my favorite. There is considerably more plot movement that in the first two, and Ralph, while still essentially mousey in his character, does rise above himself and act out of genuine altruism - in other words, This time he runs away to save Matt's job rather than because he's upset with his cousins! The human characters are better developed too, and everything wraps up to the mutual satisfaction of all players. A worthy conclusion to a series that my 5-year-old ate up.
I really enjoyed reading "Ralph S. Mouse". Ralph is at school. The only way for him to get back to the inn and get his motorcycle is to make it through the maze the class created. The plot surprised me a bit and was very interesting. I recommend this book to all ages because it is very easy to read and is enjoyable.
A new series of Beverly Cleary books for me. Interesting but I prefer people books to animals, generally. A pre-read to recommend to my grandchildren.
I'm loving these Beverly Cleary books as much as my daughter is. I hope she'll let me read aloud to her for years to come. Classics!
It was a little bit boring,but at the end it was interesting.
Ralph S. Mouse starts in the same hotel that is the setting for The Mouse and the Motorcycle. Ralph just wants some space to ride his motorcycle, but all his relatives have moved into the hotel for the winter and he can’t ride in peace because they want to ride it. He asks Ryan, the hotel’s housekeeper’s lonely son, to take him and his motorcycle to school so he can ride in peace. When another kid spots Ralph in Ryan’s pocket, he becomes the inspiration for a class unit that will culminate in R
He asks Ryan, the hotel’s housekeeper’s lonely son, to take him and his motorcycle to school so he can ride in peace.
The boys get in a fight that leaves Ralph’s motorcycle broken, and the local paper writes a story that leads to possible fumigation of the school.
Ralph accosts Brad for ruining the motorcycle, leading to a friendship between the boys.
Ryan takes Ralph back to the hotel to save him from traps at school, and Brad gives Ralph a remote control car.
I was having a lot of problems getting the 5th graders to read their own books during study hall, so I decided that I'd read to them every day.
I remembered having a teacher read The Mouse and the Motorcycle to my class once way-back-when, so I grabbed this one.
I had many tell me, "I like that mouse book." At the end of this book, one student told me how much he liked it but asked, "How did the motorcycle work?" I said, "Well, by making the 'pbbb' noise." The kid says, "Yeah, but how?
While not as magical as the first, this book was better but different.
This book focuses on Ralph seeing and getting involved with (although not necessarily fixing) problems between two children, more than Ralph own desire for play and adventure.
If you want to read this to get more of the whimsy of the first book you will be dissappointed, as it is far more serious, but in terms of having children's books addressing more real issues this is still soft and light.
The writing or style or something returns to the cuteness of the first book with the warm fuzzies of the first book and less eye-rolling than the second.
The best part in the book is probably when Brad's dad comes to pick up Brad at the Mountain View inn and then he meets Ryan's mom and they get married and then Brad and Ryan become brothers and then they said Ralph would do good with Arfy (the dog) but Ralph didn't like it so he stayed home at the inn.
The main problem in the story is probably like Ralph wouldn't listen to Ryan about doing the maze correctly or obeying what he says.
I recommend this book to 7 or 8 yr olds.
