https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65119.The_Miserable_Mill
This series is too perfect and it hurts my eyes.
Because of all the eye symbols in the book?
And even when I first read them at 14, I loved how dark they could get.
#legitAnd I also LOVE how the Baudelaires are forced to swap their talents!
This time Violet had to do some research and reading while Klaus invented something in a death defying moment.Sunny doing a sword fight with her teeth, however, I can't quite...I just...how.Definitely one of my favourite books in the series because IT'S SO FREAKING UNFAIR.
Don't read it.
Save yourself.(READ IT.)
The children head to Paltryville where they'll meet there new guardian. They arrive at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill where they meet Sir, the owner of the mill. Sir is the Baudelaire's new guardian and the children learn that the mill will be there new place of employment. Once again, the children are told not to worry about Count Olaf and that they'll be kept safe from him. "The deal is this: I will try to make sure that Count Olaf and his associates never go anywhere near you, and you will work
"The deal is this: I will try to make sure that Count Olaf and his associates never go anywhere near you, and you will work in my lumbermill until you come of age and get all that money.
It's fun to see what tricks Count Olaf will be up to next, but I'm still wondering why he keeps coming around to steal the children when the money isn't even available until Violet turns 18!My kids are still enjoying the series and we plan to finish all the books.
I like the idea of the mill but it was just okay. I had the vibe of a horror movie in an old mill so I think this messed up the book for me. Lol.
This is perhaps the most anxiety-inducing book in the most anxiety-inducing series of all time.There is something about the particular Count Olaf evil plan hijinks in this book that is SO MUCH WORSE to me than all the others??
Anyway: Violet invents, Klaus reads, Sunny bites.In this book, Violet reads!
It’s kind of a fun thing of, like, hey children of the world, you do not need to limit yourself.
Woohoo!Count Olaf’s role in this book is very limited, and therefore not as AMAZING as he normally is in the other books (villain-wise).
Lemony Snicket is fun, it's terribly depressing and highly entertaining. All the books make me feel like I'm 12 again, and I curl up on the couch, laughing out loud and eating gummy bears.
I adore the development of the Baudelaire kids in this book.
That's easily my favorite part.
This is also, of all four of my rereads, the book I remembered least so it was fun to really rediscover a lot of the plot elements that I had forgotten.
Also, I have to say I have seen some spoilers for how Charles and Sir are portrayed in the ASOUE show and I'm thrilled.
So, overall, I have loved rereading these four books in the series.
And I promise that my ASOUE videos will start going up soon.
The more books I read, the less I like this series.
Perhaps if I did, I would like them better now but unfortunately I feel lukewarm at best about this series.
I just feel like these stories go around and around in circles and I'm quite tired of it.
I like the kids but the story just isn't working for me anymore.
I will probably return to this series eventually and I plan to watch the Netflix show to see if I like it any better but for now, I'm done reading this series.
This series just gets more and more miserable as it goes along and I just love it!
The way they treat the children is absolutely appalling but I think that's part of the charm of this series.
That's what makes this series real though because a lot of the time in real life, orphans do have terrible experiences and bounce around from home to home.
I really enjoyed my reread of this book, and although this book as a whole is not my favourite of the series, Count Olaf's disguise in this one is my favourite out of all of them!
I cannot see in my mind a cloud of smoke from a cigar that is totally impenetrable and moves with someone.iii) A log being sawed is moved from its path (where it is held by the fact the circular saw is halfway through its length) by a child with a strip of metal using only the force that can be applied through the adhesion of a piece of chewing gum stuck to both the log and the metal strip.iv) A baby has a lengthy 'sword fight' with a grown and murderous woman.
a baby uses her teeth to sword fight with a grown woman and and actual sword so really that's all you need to know about why this is a great book
After reading Lemony Snicket's 'the Dark' I decided to try the Unfortunate events series again.
It started out ok and I simply can't believe how ridiculous and outlandish it was.
I then read that many readers consider this the worst book in the series.
It was the end that was so beyond silly.
This was simply silly.I am not much of a fan of this book.
I also realize much of the book is taken up with explaining things and not action.
It is very simple really without all the explaining.
I felt this was a bad entry in the series.
Favorite insight: It is much, much worse to receive bad news through the written word than by somebody simply telling you, and I'm sure you understand why. When somebody simply tells you bad news, you hear it once, and that's the end of it. But when bad news is written down, whether in a letter or a newspaper or on your arm in felt tip pen, each time you read it, you feel as if you are receiving the news again and again.
3.8 My least favorite ASOUE book so far. Same style, but different situations. I think the Baudelaire children can really look out for themselves, so the plot needs to get more in depth. Just like the previous book, "The Wide Window", this series is trying to take a darker and more mature lane... so I guess children below 8 years old will not appreciate this book. Nevertheless, it was still a fun read on my part. Still charming and full of misadventures. It's interesting to see what Count Olaf
My least favorite ASOUE book so far.
Same style, but different situations.
I think the Baudelaire children can really look out for themselves, so the plot needs to get more in depth.
Just like the previous book, "The Wide Window", this series is trying to take a darker and more mature lane...
so I guess children below 8 years old will not appreciate this book.
Nevertheless, it was still a fun read on my part.
It's interesting to see what Count Olaf is up to in the next books, so I'm really looking forward to book five - which is "The Austere Academy".
UPDATE: 19/Jan/2017The review from before is wrong because yes I still liked this book but now that I've read all of the books this one is my least favourite.6/Dec/2016I liked this book much more than I expected. It was different from the others and that made me like it.
تو این کتاب ماجرای بچهها با سرپرست جدیدشون ادامه پیدا میکنه.تو این کتاب شخصیت چارلز توجهم رو جلب کرد. کسی که سعی میکنه خوشبین باشه و به دیگران کمک کنه ولی نوع کمک کردنش با اون کمکی که طرف میخواد فرسنگها فاصله داره...----------یادگاری از کتاب:خواندن یک خبر بد خیلی بدتر از شنیدنش است....صبح، وقت مهمی از روز است، چون اینکه صبحتان را چهطور بگذرانید، اغلب میتواند نشان بدهد چهجور روزی پیش رو دارید.
تو این کتاب ماجرای بچه‌ها با سرپرست جدیدشون ادامه پیدا می‌کنه.تو این کتاب شخصیت چارلز توجهم رو جلب کرد. کسی که سعی می‌کنه خوش‌بین باشه و به دیگران کمک کنه ولی نوع کمک کردنش با اون کمکی که طرف می‌خواد فرسنگ‌ها فاصله داره...----------یادگاری از کتاب:خواندن یک خبر بد خیلی بدتر از شنیدنش است....صبح، وقت مهمی از روز است، چون اینکه صبحتان را چه‌طور بگذرانید، اغلب می‌تواند نشان بدهد چه‌جور روزی پیش رو دارید.
خب این کتاب هم تموم شد. دیگه کم کم این قضیه ی موش و گربه بازی های بچه ها و کنت اولاف داره خسته کننده میشهدوستانی که بقیه ی کتاب های این مجموعه رو خوندن بی زحمت یه کمکی بکنید بگید ببینم اگر قرار نیست تو کتاب های بعدی هم رازی برملا بشه، من یهو برم همون آخری رو بخونم تا ببینم بالاخره ماجرا قراره به کجا ختم بشه
Miserable indeed. Unfortunately this book in A Series of Unfortunate Events takes its title too literally. I enjoyed the first book and love the concept of put-upon children succeeding with no foreseeable hope on the horizon. However, the execution is too formulaic, mill-like if you will. I can put up with the repetition, because the author's bits of wit keep it fun, but this had less wit and more formula than the first three.
This installment somehow bothers me, this series is a children's book and to write something a little too horrifying for kids is just a "mehh" for me. First, the Baudelaire guardian is basically the cruelest and most useless person ever, the same thing can also be said to Mr. Poe (except he's not cruel, only an idiot)I don't think I'll read the fifth book soon, but I'll definitely continue the series.
3 STARSThis wasn't as good as the first three, that's for sure. I'm hoping that the 5th redeems the fourth and that it's more exciting than this one was. I did love that Count Olaf was in drag haha I'm interested to see how they adapt this one considering it was kind of boring and really felt like a filler book to be honest. I still enjoyed it though. :)Now on to "The Austere Academy"!! - Richard
This one has always been my least favorite of the series
These books are clever and my children enjoy them. They make our trips up North go by more quickly but I'm not sure I'm going to be able to hang in for all twelve!
3.5 starsThe Miserable Mill is the forth book of A Series of Unfortunate Events.
I like to know how everything plays out for our young heroes, but it may take me some time to finish the series, since I basically know how things are going to end up by the end of each book.
It makes more sense to read this when the books were released.
Thirteen books to be exact, and I have a feeling they are going to nearly escape Count Olaf clutches in most of them.
In general, I think this series is different from other books, where everything is just dark and dismal all the time.
A lot happened in this book and I'm still a little shook from it.
Now in this book we still have the three kids: Klaus, Violet, and Sunny.
The one thing I didn't like about this book was the child labor.
Then the adults trying to take the fortune away from three innocent kids is still messed up in my eyes.
The amount of things these three had to deal with in this book sort of blew my mind.Overall, I'm still a little shook.
I can't wait to dive into the next book just to see what curve ball these kids are thrown next.
The Miserable Mill is my favorite in this series so far. Does anybody recall the criminally underrated 1995 film The Mangler? Well, this book is quite similar. When the orphans find themselves at the doors to the creepy Lucky Smells Lumber Mill (what the hell was Lemony Snicket on when he made that name up???), they find that despite the deplorable conditions, at least Count Olaf is nowhere to be seen... but as usual, they can't evade the grim happening in their situation forever.
3.5/5I really wanted to love this one because sounded so much more interesting and exciting that all the others but unfortunately I ended up liking it less.The theme of the mill and the hypnosis was so cool at first but the development didn't convince me.This book for me had a lot of potential and the idea was super cool, there's a little horror vibe and of course it was kept low and simple and not too much scary because it's meant for kids but the story was a little repetitive throught the book.We can barely see and interact with Count Olaf this time and this was one of the aspect that I didn't like.His figure this time is very less present even if the character chosen as his disguise was hilarious.
And so another series I started and never got round to finish is returned to.
Carrying on my challenge to finish series I started and some how never got round to finishing I have now started back on the Series of Unfortunate Events.
The second is that it feels like it could easily slip in to a formulaic story where each episode is a re-telling of the same premise - over and over again where the children call it out and the authorities first ignore then and then choose to act just a little too late.
After reading book 5, it's become clear to me that the pacing and tone of this book is far too irrepressibly dreary, even for an unhappy story like the Baudelaire's.
It felt a lot like being battered by a particularly thorny ram over and over again until the last sentence ended.
I understand this is an unfortunate story, but ultimately, the relentless pain in this novel detracts from the overall enjoyment.That said, I appreciate The Miserable Mill's place in this series, and it reads very much like the 'true' start after the episodic nature of the first three books.
These children are going to need therapy.
Actual rating: 4.5 starsI think this has been my fave in the series so far!
my dear god where does po find these people?it goes from bad to worse.
