https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133466.Teckla
4.0 to 4.5 stars. The above quote just about perfectly sums up the tone and style of Steven Brust's JHEREG novels...playfully dark, coolly subdued and dangerously badasstic...in a word YUMMMMMM!! Seriously, I am pretty smitten with Brust's breezy style and this series is currently on a very short list of what I call literary comfort food. They just really hit the sweet spot and are such a potent combination of well written, tightly plotted stories (averaging under 200 pages) with a highly engag
Vlad Taltos, our main man, is a human who has become a citizen of the Empire as a result of “buying into” one of the less noble houses known as the Jhereg .
The Jhereg are assassins and criminals and are generally hired by members of the other great houses to do dirty work.
PLOT SUMMARYThis installment is a bit of a departure from the first two in that the plot takes on a very political tone when Vlad discovers that his wife, Cawti***, has joined a group of radical Easterners bent on bringing down the Empire.
It's the book I like least in the series, but it's the only one that I remember most vividly.The most frustrating thing about this book is experiencing the end of Vlad and Cawti's marriage through Vlad's eyes.
Things are still tense between Vlad and Cawti, and they are still drifting apart, pulled by different ideals, and you don't know what the future holds.
I'm sure some of the later books will focus on the marriage some more, but I just didn't expect to read the beginning and the end back-to-back like this.
Brust’s storytelling works a lot alike that, which is why I feel so immersed with these books.
Each novel seems to focus on a different culture/race, and as I read and recognize their names as titles of future books, making me all the more eager to get to those and find out more.Overall, I’m in for the long haul of this series.
They’re perfect palate cleansers between other novels and I appreciate what seems to me like a true merging of genres (with fantasy being the most prominent).Recommendations: I’d hand this series to someone relatively well-read in the fantasy genre with emphasis on its originality.
Fortunately for us, we've got a flying novel that goes down so smooth it might as well have been a dragon dipping into a lake.I never felt so close to Vlad as during this novel, and that may be because I'm already invested in the character, or it could be because the conflict is real, immediate, and scary, while only occasionally turning into a bloodbath.Revolution.
what was Cawti thinking?I suppose this novel felt the most real.
Never mind the fact that she worked happily alongside the aristocracy -- indeed, her sisterly relationship to the heir to the throne is entirely jettisoned and the heir goes unmentioned during this novel, no doubt because it fails to fit Brust's political agenda and re-imaginings of the characters.I suppose we're supposed to be impressed with the hollow, childish, anachronistic rhetoric the Revolutionaries spout or Cawti's self-centered, fanatical hypocrisy or Vlad's baffling gullibility...
He is – in short – one of the most complex and complete characters I can think of.And, as fans of the Vlad Taltos series will tell you, Vlad is only one level of the series’ complexity.
But he is the bedrock upon which everything else rests, and keeping Vlad compelling, keeping him interesting, allows Brust to do things with his stories that he wouldn’t be able to do otherwise.
In the case of Teckla, Brust is able to engage in meditations on big issues like division of labour, worker and peasant power, racism, and revolution, while he’s busy engaging with the more personal issues of trust in love, self-reflection and family loyalty.
And instead of talking about herself, Cawti tells him he needs to work out why he's an assassin and that he's not a bad person just because he's had to kill people to survive.
I sympathize with Vlad, who makes the point that he dislikes revolutionaries because they think ideas are more important than people.
I'd have been more sympathetic if they'd gone for something reasonable, like freedom from the Jhereg machine.And speaking of that: (view spoiler)[Vlad's solution of simply buying South Adrilankha is going to do a hell of a lot more for helping the Easterners and Teckla who live there than Kelly's revolution.
Yeah, it's well-written and I still like Vlad, but everything else about this book is a giant downer.
Yeah, his reactions aren't that great, either, but seriously, I spend this whole book wanting to shove Cawti down a dark hole somewhere so Vlad can find someone who actually loves and supports him.And it doesn't help that we get none of his other friends in this book, either.
So we have an isolated Vlad trying to figure out what Cawti sees in these clowns and knowing that she's in danger and he wants to save her if at all possible.
1,5 / 5this is the third book i've read in this series..While i do like the universe, and the concept, i'm becomming increasingly dissapointed with this series..I have different standards for the first books in a series and the later...It is to be expected that the universe and the characters in the first stories are a bit hollow, and thin, since that can be filled out later..
i think that was the case with the dresden files..But this series doesnt really seems to deepen, it was written so that one could read the series in no particular order, and that really makes it weak.This story in particular was stupid, really really stupid !
speaking out of my own experience ,revolution doesn't work like thatand about his wife waking up feeling disgusted by him and his life choices ,and he the little bitch he is will literally kill himself trying to protect her ,not that she wants him tobut love man ,love
Teckla is the third book in the Vlad Taltos series by Steven Brust.
In this book, Vlad and Cawti have grown and changed as people are wont to do when time passes.
Plus, the passive and introspective nature of this novel just brings on the yawns.But, while Vlad is realizing that Cawti's personal development wasn't frozen in time when he married her, Cawti has also gone off to join the human analogue of the Black Panther movement, complete with dominant-race sympathizers.
it just isn't enough for me to call this as complete and well thought out a novel as the previous two in the series.
I think the main reason for not liking this book as much as the first two in the series is a change in tone.
One of the reasons why I enjoyed the first two novels was the lighter tone compared to a lot of fantasy.
This book was a bit of a downer because Vlad spends a lot of time sulking about his wife Cawti throughout the entire novel.
Maybe I also missed Vlad's Dragonlord friends, who were absent during this book - they're good fun.Overall, its not bad enough to sour me on the series.
Teckla is the third novel in Steven Brust’s series about Vlad Taltos, a human assassin who lives in the empire of Dragaera which is populated mostly by a species of long-lived tall humanoids who were genetically engineered by sorcerers and divide themselves into clans depending on their specific traits.
In the second book, Yendi, we learned how Vlad met his wife Cawti when she was sent to assassinate him.
He died but was revivified by his minions and married Cawti.The Teckla of the title of this third book are the peasant clan of Dragaera.
I really like the whole Vlad Taltos series by Brust - but this one was horrible, there's no other way to say it.
It was all about the revolution of Easterners and the Teckla in South Adrilankha, it read like some revolutionary pamphlet.
Vlad and Cawti were fighting the whole time and she behaved in such an uppity way, she looked at him like he was some kind of filth on her shoes, that I couldn't understand what he saw in her, why he still loved her and kept running after her like a lost puppy.
Vlad's wife wants to be a revolutionary. Vlad doesn't want her to be a revolutionary. Conflict ensues. It would have been more interesting if I had been invested in their relationship, but so far that has been my least favorite aspect of these books. I like Vlad Taltos and I like Brust's writing well enough to continue, but I'm hoping these get better.
But for this book, they made Vlad completely loose his shit for a woman who doesn't even understand the meaning of being someone's wife.I like Cawti during the first two books because she was badass and ,as Vlad observed, like a female version of himself.
Duh, not much strategy or planning which would have been more fun if they made Vlad unravel it and set them to rights.The only good thing I found in this book is Kragar, my currently most fave character and good old wise Noish-pa.
I identify with Vlad in this book - I feel like I should care about the plight of the Easterners, but frankly, I just don't. It has its moments - the dialogue is great, for example. But there was definitely a point at which I hoped Vlad will kill them all and get it over with. And what was the deal with the ghost? It was like Brust was grasping at straws to prevent Vlad from a ruinous course of action. It felt desperate. On the other hand, there was plenty of Noish-pa.
I thought this was one of the weakest books in the series. The author was going through a divorce, and unfortunately this life event took over his novel. This book consists of nothing but a married couple fighting, having the same argument over and over without any resolution. Vlad is at his most unlikable, too - hard to sympathize with. Some critics liked the "realism" of it, but I found this book slow and depressing. You can skip this one and not miss anything.
I don't think there's anything 'worse' about this one than the first two, but it's hard to read because of the troubles with Cawti. I don't *like* Cawti, and don't like the revolutionaries, no matter how just their cause, so it makes it a bit tough. But I think it's a measure of the series' being better than average that it allows us to see Vlad as still sympathetic while his reactions are often quite unsympathetic.
First off, I AM going to continue the series past this. But I found this book rather irritating, and difficult to get through. The politics/philosophy of this book irritated me to not end. Vlad and Cawti both pissed me off. I'm started to get annoyed by his familiar, too.But as I started, I'm going to read another couple books, for sure, before I give up on the series. The world and characters are fun enough not to give up.
This book lost the charm and adventure the other books in the series had. Cawti and Vlad have an argument that runs through nearly the whole book over the Easterner's plight in their ghetto. I couldn't seem to care about either situation. I skimmed through a lot of it-- I might even recommend most people skipping this one. I feel pretty burned out on this series.
An interesting world with interesting people.Too bad they keep acting like morons. I'll probably check out his other works, since the main character shows such promise. But this book is about inanely simplistic politics, and utterly unrealistic consequences of same. Don't bother.
I'm adoring this series. :)
Gritty, ambiguous, political.
Not as good as the first two. But still very good and fun to read
But, he is Vlad, and he's going to do things his way.But even though we don't see Cawti's consciousness, from the dialog we really do understand where she is coming from.
I really liked this book a lot.
The interactions between Vlad and Cawti are really poignant I think, and for a book like this that's saying a lot.
I say this, because up until now the books have been action-focused, whereas this one has a deeper human element that brought the series to a different level for me.I wanted to rate this book a 5 for the above reasons.
A little less rolicking that the previous two, this one picks up shortly after the action of Book 1.
Less rolicking because Vlad and Cawti are having problems and, weirdly for a fantasy novel, I found myself worrying about the main characters' marriage.I have to say that I really appreciate the world-building in these.
In the second book it was the mention of some alien (?) race that had combined Dragerians and Easterners in this one world to see how things would work out.
Vlad is contemplating what to do with his new wealth, maybe build Cawti that castle she's been wanting?
Their domestic bliss is interrupted by Cawti's involvement with a determined group of revolutionaries who want better lives for two of the Empire's most downtrodden groups -- the Easterners and the Teckla.I love the relationship between Vlad and Cawti, so this was a tough read for me.
Cawti is committed to this cause and Vlad is not.
After loving the first two books of the series, this one was disappointing, mostly because of the evolution of Vlad, the main character.
The author introduces some interesting themes about entitled vs the masses (a topic conveniently ignored in most fantasy novels), but instead of using it to promote Vlad's personal growth, the author instead makes him weaker and more self-centered.
Instead of intelligently discussing issues with his spouse, Vlad lets the relationship die.
And ultimately, Vlad turns to money instead of dealing with the societal problems.
But it makes for an unlikeable hero, as well as a change in overall tone, which doesn't bode well for the rest of the series.
This book is not as fun as the first two books.
In this book sometimes they are stupid.
They are definitely not random PIS.The other two books were focused on world-building and were adventures, this one is focused on character development and is a drama.I haven't read the following books yet, but from my limited perspective this book seems to be important the development of the rest of the series.
Although I liked it, I really missed the fun and hope the rest of series to be more similar to the first two books.
