https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28116.The_Know_It_All
This book was by no means dull, but it was interesting in the way that flipping through the encyclopedia or the dictionary yourself is interesting-- as you scan the pages you find weird little tidbits that catch your fancy.
I also got the feeling that some editor somewhere told Jacob's that he needed some sort of personal content to help the reader relate to him, so that he found ways to work details of his difficulty getting his wife pregnant into almost every letter.
All of the interjections about his personal life felt forced and superficial.
It took Jacobs something like a year to read the encyclopedia?
Although I don’t really get how it’s possible that it took him a year because I feel like way more than half of the book was about Jacobs and his wife trying to get pregnant, but then she was seven months pregnant when the book was over.
I guess, again, Biblically made more sense to me because I’ve spent a lot of time considering the value of religion and of interpretations of spiritual texts, where I’ve always been pretty comfortable with my cursory decision that reading an entire encyclopedia is of no interest to me.
I saw this dude in person talking about his newer book ("The Year of Living Bibically"): he seemed quirky, intelligent, curious, funny, and overall quite interesting.
He had just talked about "The Year", it was newer, and honestly it just seemed a lot more interesting than a book about reading the encyclopedia.
I wonder if other parents in Porbandar told their kids, 'For the last time, I don't want you hanging around with that bad seed Mohandas!' this gives me Movie Idea Number Three: 'Young Ghandi,' with Frankie Muniz as the cigarette-sucking, burger-eating pickpocket who eventually accepts his fate as the most saintly man alive."Along the way, we learn about Jacobs' hypochondria, his attempts with wife Julie to have a baby, his parents and other relatives, and go along with him as he joins a Mensa outing, competes on Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, interviews Alex Trebek and does other smartest man in the world activities.Most of the book is a fascinating funny romp through the world of facts, but in the end, it also is heartwarming, and you actually care about what happens to A.J. and Julie and the other people in his life.
first of all, since when is "i spent a year ________ing" a trendy model for a book?
my friend beth spent a year following the advice of self-help gurus; a.j. jacobs read the entire encyclopedia brittanica.
what ever happened to being hired by harper's to write a 10,000 word article about your week aboard a cruise ship?anyway, i liked jacobs' book a lot.
but, as i learned from the book, there are flaws even in the venerable e.b.
reducing plath and lowell and hemingway to a cheeky esquire-esque sidebar kinda proved how much he didn't learn from his year after all.
I loved this book.Reminds me of when I was a child and would read the encyclopedia because there was nothing else in the house.Extremely funny, one of the only books to actually make me laugh out loud no matter where I was.
I laughed out loud repeatedly through this book. I even made my husband read it
This book was given to me as a gift on two separate occasions, which I think is says a lot about my behavior...
I've read this book three times. Jacobs is funny and fantastic. Read anything of his.
In this one, Jacobs decides to become the smartest person in the world by reading the Encyclopedia Brittanica from beginning to end.
This way of arranging the book became tedious to me after about letter C.
There's a reason I would never read the Encyclopedia Brittanica - there's no way I could retain any of the facts.
This book felt the same way - Jacobs was so intent on showing that he had read each encyclopedia entry that he filled his book with too many forgetable facts causing me to lose his overall purpose.
I decided to clear my rating. I didn't find it particularly amusing, but it didn't repulse me or anything. The thing is, a lot of us bookish kids back in days of yore did find ourselves at some point sitting down and reading encyclopedias. So, as far as I'm concerned, Jacobs is way late to the game.
An annoying book about reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica that I was compelled to finish.
If he had just fessed up to being an elitist with some intellectual pretensions I would have found the book way more enjoyable.) For human interest he shoe-horned in a rather pat telling of he and his wife trying to get pregnant.
I wish he'd just relaxed and let himself appear a little more intellectually engaged.If I'll take away anything from Jacobs' quest to read the Encyclopedia Britannica, it is this: Ebbinghaus.-------------My counter-recommendation:Vanishing Point by David Markson.
Definitely food for you brain, but upon purchasing this book I wasn't aware the chapters of the book went from "A-Z" each chapter containing his favorite words/definitions, mixed in with narrative of his life.
I liked the author, but sometimes he could really get on my nerves..if i heard one more mention of visiting his parents in "East Hampton" and countless mentions of being an "upper middle class New Yorker" writing on his "white Macintosh lap book", or his complaining about how he couldn't get his wife pregnant, I was going to scream...but hey this book had its moments.
I could have done without reading this book. I thought it was cleverly compiled, but realistically, who wants to read a book with a listing of definitions? The only parts that made me want to keep reading were AJ's adventure on Millionaire and his journey to having a child. A novel concept, but not worth the 300+ pages of reading.
I’m not sure I will ever take up a task like reading the Encyclopaedia, especially with easy to access to Wikipedia.Knowledge has interested me, and the way to obtain more knowledge is fascinating.
Obviously people don’t like being corrected, or want to hear weird related facts but I can’t help thinking that I would do the same thing as well.A.J. Jacobs is quite a character and reading about the ways he tries to put his newfound knowledge into practise was really interesting.
What started out as a clever and funny tale of an epic chore -- reading the entirety of the Encyclopedia Britannica in one year -- quickly devolved into a study of one of the most annoying people I can imagine.I read Jacobs' The Year of Living Biblically: One Man's Humble Quest to Follow the Bible As Literally As Possible last year and found it fairly enjoyable.
Enjoyable enough to pick up his first book.
Jacob came across as slightly neurotic but basically curious and endearing in Living Biblically.
Interspersed throughout the book were some facts selected from the Britannica.
Jacobs attempts to read the entire encyclopaedia might have seemed frivolous to those around him, but by ploughing through the Britannica’s 33,000 pages, this was his attempt to increase his crystallized intelligence - an ambitious enterprise to say the least.
Even though as Jacob states, the knowledge in the world is like an ocean and after reading the Britannica, it humbled him to understand how little of that ocean he knows.
But I liked the parts of this book that focused on Jacob.
However, I do want to read more of Jacobs work because I enjoyed his writing style, and his witty sense of humor does align with my own.
AJ Jacobs wrote "The Know-It-All" as a quest/personal memoir about his journey reading the entire Encyclopaedia Britannica.
He believed that if he read this behemoth, he would then be deemed "the smartest man in the world." I guess the big question is this: does a wide breadth of knowledge really equate increased intelligence?
It ends quite abruptly without much introspection, but I guess after reading 30,000 pages ranging from Greek gods to astrophysics, I'd be pretty much too exhausted to write/think anymore.
Author A. J. Jacobs' informative and hilarious romp through the Encyclopedia Britannica. Quite the page-tuner (unlike the complete Encyclopedia Britannica, I'm guessing).
As much as I enjoyed A.J. Jacobs' newest book, The Year of Living Biblically, I think that it doesn't hold a candle to the book that preceded it: The Know-It-All. After reading these two books, along with a handful of his articles for Esquire (he's the magazine's Editor at Large), I've developed such an appreciation for the man that I am currently debating ordering one of his older works, The Two Kings: Jesus and Elvis, which analyzes the eerie similarities between the two figures.
Also, I read The Year of Living Biblically by him and really enjoyed it.
I expected it to be more interesting and less dry, but in my opinion, it's really not.
The main side story of his personal life is how him and his wife can't get pregnant, which is depressing and definitely does not help to lighten the mood of all the factoids vomited all over the pages.*SPOILER ALERT*-At least since I had read The Year of Living Biblically, I already knew that they do have a baby at some point.
John Adams, “… spent his old age enjoying his tankard of hard cider each morning before breakfast and rejoicing at the size of his manure pile.”Flirty Fishing: a practice among hippy Christians in the sixties whose female members “… spread the gospel by having sex with men.”George III (probably my favorite) – “The British king ended his sentences rhetorically and fussily with the repeated words ‘what, what, what?’” While I did chuckle quite a few times throughout the book, I found Jacobs’ quest in “The Know-it-All” considerably less endearing than in “The Year of Living Biblically”.
He's got a wonderful sense of humour, nicely balancing self-deprecation and personal anecdotes in a way that really allows you to get inside his head.This book is written in sections much like encyclopediae, with the topic name and then Jacobs writing what he found so fascinating or weird about it, or an event in his life that related to the entry.
It's obvious by his writing that he was a prolific note-taker, as some of the entries contain phrases like, "I just read this," or "as I read this," making the reader feel as though they're taking the epic challenge right alongside him.Aside from a humourous look at the acquisition of knowledge and one man's slightly demented quest to read all that, you can actually learn a lot, too.
A seriously abbreviated edition of the 2002 Encyclopedia Britannica - following a writer who tried to read the entire thing in a year.
Very few go more than two pages, and most of the information is either framed humorously or ties into the narrative of the year of Jacobs’s life away from the Britannica.
That trait is the most vulnerable and common of the threads in his life, lending just enough of a personal feeling that, when mixed with Jacobs’s goodhearted prose, you have a fine relationship with your author for the trip of a few hundred pages of trivia (and major philosophical topics).(Published January 2009, edited for typos February 2016)
I purchased this book as a birthday present for my husband.
(Sorry hon, you know I mean well.) While reading the book my husband would share with me funny little tid-bits and upon completion, told me he thought I'd really enjoy it...
I know it sounds like the story of a guy recounting his foray into reading the entire library of Encyclopedia Britannica from A-Z would be a veritable yawn fest, but this guy is FUNNY!
Plus you learn little bits & pieces of Britannica trivia along the way without having to wade through all the exceedingly boring stuff...
What a great book!
While I've never even thought of reading the Encyclopaedia Britannica from A to Z (or even one volume), as profound trivia fanatic I can totally identify with A.J. Jacobs' quest to make himself smarter.
This book is part trivia lover's dream, part philosophical musing on one's insecurities as you get older and wonder about your place in the world.
Jacobs is a terrifically self-deprecating writer, funny and even a little bit touching.
I'd highly recommend this to anyone who is interested in a whole bunch of interesting facts about things you've never thought about before.
This was awesome! Kind of like a hilarious, abbreviated version of a set of encyclopedias!It's found under humor, but is sort of a memoir? The guy complains his brain is turning to mush because the only information he takes in lately is regarding pop-culture. Why can he name all the members of N'Sync, yet forgets major historical events? So he sets out on a quest for knowledge and commits to reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica.This book includes author-deemed high-points of the encyclopedias, as well as personal and hysterical commentary.
I expected more. I was one of those weird kids who actually read two different encyclopedias . Read one the summer after 5th grade and another in 7th grade. The 1st was the world book and I continued to read the update volumes until I went away to college. I expected less personal anecdotes and more interesting knowledge.
A stimulating, fascinating read. This book will, in the least, teach you a thing or two. What makes it such a good read is the authors sense of humor and how he creates a story around this seemingly nonsensical quest to read the encyclopedia. Each chapter filled with useless facts, fun life applications and a good laugh or two. I thoroughly loved this book.
A.J. Jacobs had me laughing out loud again. I love his awkwardness, his vulnerability and his ease at being able to constantly make fun of himself. I enjoyed his, " The Year of Living Biblically," a bit better because I found the subject matter more interesting. But, this is still such a fun book.
