https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426490.Eleanor_the_Queen
I liked Eleanor the Queen because Eleanor is not as well known as other royalty; say Anne Boleyn or Elizabeth I.
Yet she was the queen of two kings and the mother of Richard the Lionhearted.
She was imprisoned for several years by husband Henry II, seemly unscathed, to then reign as Queen Consort while Richard was off fighting a crusade.
Another reason I liked Eleanor the Queen were the scriptural references scattered throughout the book.
As I read I concluded the author had to have had personal knowledge of the scriptures to write as she did.
No wonder I like this author.
Not a bad little read. It's a slim book, so I knew it would gloss over a lot of her life, but it still gave a sense of what a strong woman Eleanor was. I think I'd prefer an actual biography, but this was fun to "flesh out" some of the relationships and give you a chance to peek into what might have been going through her head, especially during the fifteen years she was in prison.
I really loved this book. I haven't read a historical fiction for a while and I had forgotten how much I love them. This book is based around fact. I love to learn about the history of Englands royals. It is a really fascinating read and written in a way that is easy to read without all the stuffyness of some factual books.
I enjoyed this book very much. I thought the story telling was exceptionally vivid, in addition to being very accurate. Eleanor was such an amazing woman! From the crusades of her youth to her 15 year imprisonment as an old woman, her life was fascinating.
I enjoyed the book but was sadly disappointed when I realized that it did not continue throughout her life time.
As my Mom has just said to me, while discussing this book over the kettle, "Norah Lofts is a poor man's Jean Plaidy" - and in terms of historical fiction she's right.
I'm reliably told that Lofts has written fiction which, whilst in the historical realm, are not based on actual, living breathing, written in the history books people.
I've read The Plantagenet Prelude and The Revolt of the Eaglets and revelled in Jean Plaidy's no holds barred, completely flawed and wholly steely portrayal of Eleanor of Aquitaine.
Eleanor the Queen: A Novel of Eleanor of Aquitaineby Norah LoftsTouchstone/2010First published a half-century ago, this reprint of Norah Lofts' story of one of history's most famous and powerful queens follows Eleanor from her marriage to the future king of France through her tempestuous marriage to King Henry II, her imprisonment at Henry's hands, and her eventual role as England's regent when her son, King Richard the Lion Heart, left Europe for Jerusalem on Crusade.Fifteen at the time of her father's death in 1137, high-spirited, extremely intelligent Eleanor found herself the richest and most eligible heiress in Europe, and she was married within the year to King Louis VII of France.
Louis was not the kind of husband Eleanor needed being much too meek and pious and after they returned from the second crusade after 15 years of marriage and 2 daughters in 1152 they got a divorce and Eleanor then married Henry of Normandy who shortly became King of England and granted Eleanor her second crown from 1154–1189.
Eleanor and Henry had 8 children including future kings of England but their marriage turned rocky after Henry accused Eleanor of plotting with their sons to take the crown and Henry had Eleanor locked up for the last 16 years of his reign and she only became free when her son Richard, the Lionheart became King in 1189.
This is a lovely rich novel which begins with the death of Eleanor's father while on a crusade.
Trained to rule by her father, she attempted to help her husband, King Louis VII, but his advisers denigrated her and kept them apart.
Using the excuse that they were cousins, their marriage was annulled.Later she married Henry Plantagenet, bearing him several children including Richard the Lionhearted and John Lackland.
Henry continued his rounds of the kingdom without her and began an affair with the dying Rosemund.
Henry attributes Rosemund's death to his wife and confines her.

As eventful as Eleanor's life was, this book manages to skim over the truly interesting things and, instead, focuses on the mundane details of her life.
I get that this is fiction, but if you're going to change these events, it'd be nice to at least make them interesting to read.
And finally, the book ends very abruptly, no epilogue or anything, so I had to go to wikipedia to see how the rest of Eleanor's life played out (in the process learning that her real life was much more interesting).
I had very high expectations for this historical novel, having heard that Lofts' novels about Anne Boleyn were among the best.
Eleanor of Aquitaine is my favorite historical figure, so I figured I would enjoy it immensely.
I was sadly disappointed.
Lofts takes quite a few liberties with the life of Eleanor of Aquitaine, including inventing a betrothal and tragedy early in her life and creating a witch-burning scene later on, neither of which I found plausible at all.
I did not find her character portrayals at all compelling.
I would much highly recommend Sharon Kay Penman's trilogy about the Plantagenets instead.
I was a little leery starting this book.
I've read about Eleanor's life by Sharon Kay Penman and Elizabeth Chadwick already so really did I need to read another one.
I was able to grab the audible version and have to say that I really enjoyed it.
The reader did a wonderful job and the writing was just as good.
The book doesn't go into great details about certain major events and skips over others totally.
Originally written in the 1950's I found this book to be very entertaining, the author has a writing style that I like.Will definitely be on the lookout for more of her books.
I thought this was a good book. I am relatively new to the Historical Fiction genre and I like the story to have a more human-interest angle than a history angle. I especially like stories about strong women, so this fit the bill. After reading this though, I realize that I do not know much at all about the Crusades.
I read this book in high school and loved it. I read it again in college and loved it, as a pleasant escape from all the serious reading I was doing. And I just read it again and love it still. It's not a great book--you can read why in the many reviews already here, but it's a light, fun read about a historical figure who is truly fascinating.
I picked this book up because I love English royalty stories and have recently become enamored with Eleanor of Aquitaine. Sadly this was an extremely boring book. It was just a recounting of Eleanor's life with some invented dialogue thrown in. Read more like a lightly fictionalized biography than an actual novel. Not very impressed.
I was introduced to a historical figure I knew nothing about, which I enjoyed, but I wasn't overly impressed by the writing. Too many times I found myself researching historical moments because I sensed a bias toward the main character.
Not as good a storyteller as Phillipa Gregory. She is mother to King Richard the Lion Hearted.Spent 15 in prison, put there by her second husband, King Henry. When he dies, Richard becomes King, and sets his mother free.She was first married to Loius, the King of France.
A very enjoyable bok. Eleanor is portrayed as a strong woman who tries to be independent, unfortunately, being an heiress did not stop her becoming at the mercy of the men in her lives. She was treated in a bad way, and not shown the respect that she deserved.
I am a fan of historical fiction and I liked how the author kept things moving quickly but gave enough detail to get a sense of being there. Eleanor lived a remarkable life and I found myself researching her to get the end of the story! Great read.
This book makes me want to read more about Eleanor. It was very much a history, with some narrative thrown in along the way. The author glosses over several years in just a few sentences, so it can be difficult to get a good sense of character and story progression.
I love this woman! Courage is not a big enough word! The story I know so well from so many other books - I just love it so much, the telling by another author is a way to read a cherished story over with different eyes.
I enjoyed reading about this strong, fascinating and powerful woman. The author did a good job giving the reader a high level view of Eleanor's life. I was disappointed by the abrupt ending and wished it had continued into her next season of life.
3.5 stars! Enjoyed this historical fiction about Richard the Lionhearted's mother.
fascinating story of Queen Eleanor, who was Queen of England some 500 years before Elizabeth I.She surprisingly had a lot of power for a women during that period in time
REALLY enjoyed this book. Have always wanted to know more about this fabled woman. What a life! Well written and fascinating. I did always hear Katherine Hepburn in my head, though!
Historical fiction about Eleanor of Aquitine and Henry II.
I enjoyed this telling of Eleaner's life. I always thought she was a fascinating woman and this added to that thought.
A true delight!
