https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4979.A_Man_Without_a_Country
Normally I would just go back to sleep, but I popped out of bed and went to my computer to confirm that it was really true (because you know how NPR gives false information all the time and shit).Then my next thought was to go to Half Priced books and buy every Kurt Vonnegut book there.So I set my alarm for 9am so I could make sure I was there when they opened the doors because I didn't want to have to wrestle anybody for those books.
Who am I to review Kurt Vonnegut?I'm no one, just another mediocre mind in this world.And all I know that a someone great is now gone.
The extremely short essays that make up this book deal with topics ranging from the importance of humor, to problems with modern technology, to Vonnegut's opinions on the differences between men and women.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و پنجم ماه دسامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: مرد بی وطن؛ اثر: کورت ونه گات؛ مترجمها: پریسا سلیمان زاده اردبیلی؛ زیبا گنجی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، مروارید، 1386، در 138 ص، مصور، جدول، واژه نامه، شابک: 9789648838527؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه نویسندگان آمریکایی سده 21، ایالات متحده، سیاست و حکومت از 1993 تا 2001 معنوان: مردی بدون وطن؛ اثر: کرت ونه گات؛ مترجم: علی اصغر بهرامی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر چشمه، 1390، در 128 ص، مصور، نمونه، شابک: 9789643624255؛ نویسنده در این اثر با بی پروایی، به نقد سیاستهای دولت آمریکا در زمان ریاست جمهوری جورج دابلیو بوش میپردازند و از رویکردی که آمریکا نسبت به سایر کشورها از جمله عراق دارد، سخت بیزار است.
A while back another writer, a reviewer, a critic, or whatever we are called, described a Kurt Vonnegut novel as another fun visit with Uncle Kurt.
Heinlein, who has also been described as a crazy old uncle you run into at a reunion, Uncle Kurt can make you laugh, make you a little uncomfortable, and most of all make you think.
A Man Without A Country has been described as possibly the closest thing we Vonnegut fans may get to a memoir from him.
This latest visit with crazy Uncle Kurt was as fun as ever.
As long as there is a soul in prison, I am not free."-- Eugene Debs, Quoted in Kurt Vonnegut, A Man Without a CountryWe use humor to dull the pain.
Like Mark Twain, Vonnegut appeals to the young and the sweaty masses while simultaneously ribbing them ever so gently.
Hell, in that way Vonnegut and Twain were a bit like Jesus.
I wonder what Vonnegut would think about that comparison?
Perhaps, it is a bit early, but maybe a kid born in the last couple years will do for Vonnegut what Paul did for Jesus.
Kurt Vonnegut's darkly twisted cantankerous humor mixed with genuine compassion for the human condition makes its way into A Man Without a Country. This book, apparently the closest thing to a memoir Vonnegut ever wrote, is a must read for Vonnegut fans (and I definitely count myself in that camp). Vonnegut has a way of looking at the world that is often quite rationale, but all the same surprising (and sometimes disturbing). This is a great start to Vonnegut's thinking or a great companion for those who have already read some of Vonnegut's classics like Cat's Cradle or Slaughterhouse Five.
I think it's a rule that you have to quote Vonnegut if you review his work.
:)Some of my favorite quotes from A Man Without a Country:"Here is a lesson in creative writing.
Don't let anybody tell you any different.""You know, the truth can be really powerful stuff.
You're not expecting it.""We have to continually be jumping off cliffs and developing our wings on the way down."This is one of my favorites that I come back to often.
The arts are not a way to make a living.
I've been craving his words and particular perspective a bit more keenly than usual after having felt his influence practically radiate off the pages of George Saunders's own variations on black humor; this, rather than a novel, turned out to be exactly what I'd wanted.What I got with this collection was what one back-cover blurb so correctly asserted to be "like sitting down on the couch for a long chat with an old friend." A Man Without a Country, published two years before Vonnegut's death, during what seemed an especially hopeless stretch of Dubbya's ill-gotten presidential stronghold, is nothing but a mosaic of the writer comprising a parade of varied but interlocking short essays.
ونه گات مثل یه بابابزرگ پیر طناز دوست داشتنی تا دلتون بخواد به جون جرج بوش غر میزنه و به عنوان کهنه سربازی در جنگ جهانی دوم، سیاست های جنگ طلبانه و سلطه گرانه و دروغگوی امریکا رو زیر سوال می بره( کتاب سال 2005 منتشر شد که همزمان با بحبوحه ی حمله ی امریکا به عراق برای یافتن سلاح های کشتارجمعی!
بود)انسان ها رو تا دلتون بخواد سرزنش می کنه که در فاصله ی زمانی کمتر از صدوپنجاه سال بعد از اختراع خودرو و هواپیما و ...، زمین تنها سیاره ی ممکن برای حیات و محیط زیست رو این طور به گند کشیدند.
هميشه شنيدن ديدگاه سالخوردگان درباره ي حقيقت زندگي، جذاب است.كورت ونه گات، اين آخر عمري خود را مردي بي وطن مي نامد.
حق هم دارد.نويسنده وصيت ميكند كه اگر خداي ناكرده روزي مردم اين را روي سنگ قبرم بنويسيد:"تنها دليل اوبراي اثبات وجود خداوندموسيقي بود."البته ميگويد چيزي كه به زنده بودنش ارزش مي بخشد، سواي از موسيقي، قديساني است كه ملاقات كرده است و منظورش از قديس كسي است كه در اين جامعه ي فوق العاده ناشايست، به طرز شايسته اي رفتار ميكند.طبق نظر ونه گات، اين طنزپرداز قهار، فكاهي راهي است براي مقاومت در برابر مشقات زندگي براي در امان ماندن از آن ها؛ اما آخر سر هم به ستوه مي آيي.
"But I am eighty-two. Thanks a lot, you dirty rats. The last thing I ever wanted was to be alive when the three most powerful people on the whole planet would be named Bush, Dick and Colon.”Well, I wonder what thoughts mr. Vonnegut would have after last year's elections...I don't want to review this book in detail - it's good, it's vonnegutian, it's funny and clever, and you should read it yourself, it'll take you a couple of hours, no more. And that was my only problem with this book - it was too short. :)
همه نوشته ها رو دوست داشتم ولی می خوام این قسمتش همیشه یادم بمونه:از همه شما که به سن و سال نوه هایم هستید عذر می خواهم.
برای همین مثلاً وقتی در تابستان زیر درخت سیب لیموناد می نوشیدیم و خوش خوشک از این در و آن در می گفتیم، مثل زنبورعسل وزوز می کردیم، عمو آلکس یک دفعه رشته ی چرت و پرت های خوشایندمان را پاره می کرد و با صدای بلند می گفت "آخه اگه این قشنگ نیست، پس چی قشنگه؟"حالا من هم همان کار را می کنم، بچه ها و نوه هایم هم همین طور.

I find it funny how so many Vonnegut fans are able to gloss over Vonnegut’s flirtations with socialism, love Vonnegut as a writer and person (a Hoosier, ain’t he, dammit?), and yet have revulsive responses to others mentioning, questioning, and engaging with socialism.
I know I’m remembering wrongly, but when I think of Vonnegut and his writing patterns, I imaginatively think that he mentions Eugene Victor Debs in the first 15 pages of all of his books.
Certainly it happens in one of them, perhaps in a couple.And now I want to read Marguerite Young’s biography of Debs (which Vonnegut blurbed favorably!)
People may find fault with Vonnegut for his know-it-all, been-there-done-that tone in this memoir. People may not even find anything new or insightful in here since every person well-versed with current affairs and the nitty-gritties of international politics has at least a second-hand knowledge of America's present day troubles. But what people are certainly bound to appreciate is Vonnegut's mordant wit and his fine sense of humour.
Μεχρι στιγμης πιστευα οτι ο Βοννεγκατ ηταν ενας τρελαρας που εγραφε εξισου τρελα βιβλια με ο,τι ιδεα του κατεβαινε στο κεφαλι.με αυτο το βιβλιο που περιεχει καποιες προσωπικες του σκεψεις και εμπειριες , καταλαβα οτι ηταν ακριβως αυτο αλλα και ενας ανθρωπος με μεγαλες ευαισθησιες και προβληματισμους , καθως και κοφτερη ματια και σκεψη για οσα γινονται γυρω μας.γιαυτο και τον αγαπησα λιγο παραπανω...
Kurt Vonnegut is a national treasure.
It was my intention to expand upon my opinion of Kurt Vonnegut in this review but the above statement alone seems sufficient.
I love Kurt Vonnegut.
Fuck Fox News.
I hate Fox News because they hated Kurt Vonnegut.
He spoke the truth.
He spoke without flourish or innuendo, straightforwardly, about things that are taboo.
Fox would rather lie to you and discredit an honest man after his death than risk you going out and reading his books.
Well, I say, go out and get yourself an enormous, teetering tower of Kurt Vonnegut books.
As seems to happen often, I became a fan of Vonnegut during college. It's been a few years since then and so to finally hear him writing in his own voice about his own thoughts, as opposed to getting to know him through the eyes of his fictional characters, was very cool. The sarcasm, the dry wit, that cynical-yet-hopeful view of the world...ah yes, if Mark Twain had a 20th Century doppelganger, it was Vonnegut.
"Life is no way to treat an animal." (123)A Man Without a Country is a somewhat loose collection, thematically speaking, of writings and reflections by Vonnegut on everything from literature to sex and politics. It is written by a man near the end of life—Vonnegut was 82 at the time—reflecting on his life and career as well as the state of the world generally and the United States in particular. Needless to say (if you are familiar especially with the late Vonnegut) there is not much to be opti
"Life is no way to treat an animal." (123)A Man Without a Country is a somewhat loose collection, thematically speaking, of writings and reflections by Vonnegut on everything from literature to sex and politics.
It is written by a man near the end of life—Vonnegut was 82 at the time—reflecting on his life and career as well as the state of the world generally and the United States in particular.
Needless to say (if you are familiar especially with the late Vonnegut) there is not much to be optimistic about—other than music, and perhaps the few angels that are found scattered here and there in the world.
منظورم از قدیس کسانی ست که در این جامعه ی فوق العاده ناشایست به طرز شایسته ای رفتار می کنندهمانطور که ویلیام شکسپیر خیلی وقت پیش گفته : شیطان هم برای رسیدن به مقاصدش به کتاب مقدس استناد می کند {یکی از زیباترین جملات این کتاب بود، چقدر هم که دانستن این جمله به درک بعضی مسائل کمک می کنهخدا چی؟ جیل برمن می گوید: لابد خدا هم کفری می شد، چون دیگر دنیا را گند برداشته است {بخاطر گندی که دنیا و مافیهاشو برداشته نباید یقه ی خدا رو چسبید، مدتیه که خودم هم به این نتیجه رسیده بودمجرج برنارد شاو در مورد این سیاره گفته: نمی دانم در کره ماه آدم هست یا نه، اما اگر باشد، لابد از کره ی زمین به عنوان دیوانه خانه شان استفاده می کنند.
I am a fan of Vonnegut's literary work, but this is a bit different.
Of course his point of view is interesting and funny, but if you are looking for something more literary I suggest trying Galapagos or Slaughterhouse 5.That being said, Vonnegut articulates clever and poignant diatribes about how humans are turning the world to crap, how our zest for technology is actually hurting us, and society's general lack of a moral compass.
It's fun to read but not particularly profound or memorable (except for the kudos he gives Librarians, of course!).
مجموعهای از حرفهای آقای ونهگوت درباره همه چیز.و البته حرفهای آقای ونهگوت حرفهای خیلی خوبی هست. و ارزش خوندن داره. طنز هم هست گاهی و تلخ.قسمتی که فراموش نمیکنماش، هیچوقت، موقعیه که درباره مهم بودن زیباییهای لحظهای و کوچیک حرف میزنه و ماجرای پست کردن کارهاش رو برای ناشرش شرح میده. که چطوری به تمام جزئیات زندگیش توجه میکنه و ازشون لذت میبره.و البته اینکه خوشی واقعی، خیلی ساده و زودگذر هست و اگه چشممون رو بهروش باز نکنیم مثل ماسه از میون انگشتا میریزه پایین و از دستاش میدیم.
مجموعه‌ای از حرف‌های آقای ونه‌گوت درباره همه چیز.و البته حرف‌های آقای ونه‌گوت حرف‌های خیلی خوبی هست. و ارزش خوندن داره. طنز هم هست گاهی و تلخ.قسمتی که فراموش نمی‌کنم‌اش، هیچوقت، موقعیه که درباره مهم بودن زیبایی‌های لحظه‌ای و کوچیک حرف می‌زنه و ماجرای پست کردن‌ کارهاش رو برای ناشرش شرح می‌ده. که چطوری به تمام جزئیات زندگی‌ش توجه می‌کنه و ازشون لذت می‌بره.و البته اینکه خوشی واقعی، خیلی ساده و زودگذر هست و اگه چشم‌مون رو به‌روش باز نکنیم مثل ماسه از میون انگشتا می‌ریزه پایین و از دست‌اش می‌دیم.
کتاب زیبایی بود و واقعا لذت بردم
کتاب رنجنامه ی(بقول مترجم وصیت نامه) ونه گاتهونه گات 82 ساله به پشت سرش نگاه میکنه و جز ویرانی نمیبینه.
شاکی از دست بشر، دولتها و زمانه س.بنظرش حتی سیاره زمین هم از دست انسانها عاصی شده و سعی میکنه با تولید ایدز و انواع آنفولانزا و سل و غیره و غیره خودشو از شر اونا خلاص کنه...
دولتها نتیجه تصمیمهای ما هستن و این چیزی نیست که بشه ازش فرار کردونه گات البته بیشترین انتقاد رو از امریکاییا و دولت امریکا میکنه که خودش رو صاحب زمین میدونه و از همه بیشتر داره به ویران شدنش کمک میکنهزمین دیوانه خانه ی کلّ عالمه"زمینِ خوب ـ میتوانستیم او را نجات دهیم، اما ما لعنتی ها بیش از حد مبتذل و تنبل بودیم"
واخ واخ واخ، من چي كار كنم از دست تو خب...نميتونم پنج بدم بهش متاسفانه، فاقد المان هاي پنج-بگير بود...
ولي منظورم چهار و نيمه، حتي شايد چهار و شش دهم!
“If you want to really hurt your parents, and you don’t have the nerve to be gay, the least you can do is go into the arts.
The arts are not a way to make a living.
They are a very human way of making life more bearable.
Practicing an art, no matter how well or badly, is a way to make your soul grow, for heaven’s sake.”
Another good reads reviewer said that Kurt Vonnegut's death was such a great loss because "nobody thinks the way he did." So true, and such an understatement.
There's just no other mind that works anything like his.
Sigh...This book is an odd compilation of the meandering thoughts, observations and reminiscences of Vonnegut at the age of 82.
There are some 2 star WTF moments where you have to make allowances for the scattered thoughts of a doddering old genius.
However, the 4 and 5 star moments are so extraordinarily good that they more than make up for any lapses.
In fact, Kurt’s final book is another collage of pieces taken from public speeches, and various articles commissioned for the publication In These Times.
Michael Silverblatt described this book as a “response to a plea”—that plea coming from the editors of Seven Stories Press, who tickled Vonnegut into writing little chunks again.
Any fresh writing from an eighty-three-year-old man is hard to come by, and Kurt recycles passages from previous books, most notably Dr. Kevorkian.
Not bad for a man without a country.
(P.S. Portions of this appear in this excellent speech).
This is the most human of Vonnegut's works--written when he was 82, shortly before he died.
But this thin volume is full of anger as well as humor--Vonnegut's fury at our treatment of the earth and of each other comes through even more than the later works of Mark Twain, with whom he is sometimes compared.
The poem at the end, "Requiem", ends with:When the last living thinghas died on account of us,how poetical it would beif Earth could say,in a voice floating upperhapsfrom the floorof the Grand Canyon,"It is done."People did not like it here.
I rarely read a book twice--there are just too many books to read in this world and not enough time to read them all.
This is one of my exceptions, though, and I loved it even more the second time than the first.
Vonnegut is incredibly interesting, down-to-earth, and funny as he goes on rants about America, people in general, and all the things he's seen during his life.
Highly recommended for anyone who has ever read and enjoyed a book by Vonnegut, but also highly recommended for anyone who wants to see what living through something like the Dresden bombings does to your outlook on life.
ما براى علافى به كره ى خاكى آمده ايم،هر كسى جز اين گفت چرت گفته/هيچ كس از زندگى جان سالم به در نميبرد.
As a sort of defense mechanism to deal with all the bs, a way to counteract the absurd and the tragic and the suffering.
But he points out something that has always worried me, the possibility of humor losing its effectiveness as armor against the suffering.
His humor defense mechanism sort of got worn down.
In spite of what he says about his humor defense mechanism getting worn down he is still damn funny.
When it comes to the craft of humor, there is a lot to learn from Vonnegut, imo he was a master.
