https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43255.Not_Without_My_Daughter
Betty Mahmoody agrees to visit Iran with her husband, Moody, and daughter, Mahtob, despite niggling thoughts to the contrary.
Looking forward to their return home, Betty and Mahtob are shocked and dismayed when Moody reveals they will not be boarding the plane as planned.
She was truly an example of a "Mama bear." There was nothing that Moody could have said or done to force Betty into submission.
She endured violent abuse from her husband, isolation, and horrible culture shock; all the while, she never stopped planning and plotting.I'm simply amazed of what one can accomplish when truly forced up against a wall.
So, even before you have read a single word, you have been given an image that is not authentic.The book is carefully packaged to cater to the American people's fears and prejudices.
It's a product of a veritable cottage industry of horror stories and black-and-white portrayals of Muslim societies (Persepolis, Reading Lolita in Tehran, etc.).Take Norma Khoury's "autobiographical" book, "Honor Lost: Love and Death in Modern-Day Jordan," which purports to be a first-hand account by an Arab woman.
(Google Norma Khoury.)Why would anybody fabricate (or, in the case of Not Without My Daughter, embellish) such horror stories?
I still loved the book and this time I knew a whole lot more about the culture.There are many things the author wrote about that are very typical of Iranian behavior, things that I have grown to love about the culture (the best food, the love of tea, the strong family unit, the way they seem like they're arguing when they're talking).
(Except for the uncleanliness part - my husband's family are all very clean, almost afraid of germs.)With this book you have to keep in mind the time in which it takes place.
Read the book, it's great!
A brilliant expose of the horrors of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Betty Mahmoudy recounts her experiences as a captive , with her daughter Mahtob, of her increasingly violent husband who keeps her a prisoner to stop her leaving the Islamic Republic.She is horrified by the unhygienic conditions of Iran and the total misogynistic lack of rights of women, and the violent anti-American propaganda fed to the population She refuses offers to get out of this vile country unless she can take her daughter with her.A brilliant graphic expose of this tyranny.
Captures everything as if on camera.What disgusts me is how leftwing feminists demonize people who challenge Islam's oppression of women, proefering to side with the Islamists just because they are anti-Western and anti-Israel.

I can't believe people are still reading this book!
I read it years ago when it first came out and had a difficult time putting it down.
Not because it is great literature, or because it is an intelligent, thought-provoking book about a culture few Americans take the time to learn about, but because William Hoffer is capable of writing a light, fast-paced, adventurous story.
I felt Betty Mahmoody acted very irresponsibly.
Reading this dreck only serves to promote ignorance and ill-will towards a fascinating people.
Burn this book and read something intelligent!
Oh, and it’s not all that rare to find people like Betty’s in-laws in Iran.Those Iranians who scream in a visceral reaction that this book is a bunch of lies are a) worried about the consequences of others generalizing this book to every Iranian; b) more personally, they think this book will make them look bad; c) jingoistic “Persians” who have a very high opinion of their homeland and take too much pride in the motherland (but call themselves Persian to hide that they’re Iranian); d) were born and/or raised outside the country and have no clue about how the Iranian society in its entirety is; e) know this book can be true, but don’t like a non-Iranian waving their country’s dirty laundry in front of the whole world; f) etc.
Some points are valid, but they still don’t make this book a bunch of lies.
At the time, my dad was living and working in Mexico as a surgeon, which meant that every other weekend found my brother and I listlessly cooped up in my dad’s clinic in Zaragoza, a very poor community on the outskirts of Juarez.
My dad’s common law wife would take charge of our weekends when my dad was working (which was most of the time), by zipping us all around Juarez—any basic American excursion like grocery shopping, grabbing a pizza, going to the movies or park, was so different, but nonetheless fun.
Intermingled with that fun was the real fear that my dad wouldn’t take us back home.
I’d rather keep the sweet memories that I had and not tarnish them with negative ones that I so often hear about.
They resented the fact that Iranians were portrayed negatively.
Personally, I thought that the movie was wonderful and it brought out all sorts of emotions in me.
Mind you, I only saw the movie that one time and it was enough.
My memory is now a bit jaded, but I’m quite sure that the book is far better and can do more justice, as is usually the case.
I’ve known friends and family members who’ve escaped the country much the same way that she did.
The undertone of racism permeated this book. It was very hard to get through because of this. While at times I did feel for the situation the author was in, it was hard to sympathize with her on other occasions because she just seemed so judgmental. I understand she was angry and frustrated and had been through a lot; it probably would have been a better book had she given it some space for perspective. The story is no doubt interesting, but it could have been written better.
Betty Mahmoody's account of her time in Iran is not only full of gross factual inaccuracies but also blatant racism and xenophobia that made the reading experience hard to stomach.
Please put this disgusting excuse for a book down if you want to learn about Iran.
Read an Iranian novel in translation.
But for the love of all that is good, do not read what Betty Mahmoody is trying to sell you.On an anticlimactic last note, it's not well-written at all, grossness aside.

I couldn't put it down at all despite knowing the outcome.
In Iran they are his property and he can do whatever he wants to them (beat, rape, keep them locked up, etc.)This book was absolutely brutal and it horrified me to know this kind of stuff still happens today.
While I was reading it I couldn't help but thinking how lucky I am I was born in Europe.
I don't know what I would have done in her situation, but I am so happy she managed to get out and write this book.
Not only for herself but for everyone who has ever been in this situation.
they do not veil like saudi yemeni and gulf women do.
but to americans, the picture of a women in a headscarve is just not "frightening" enough to sell to its stupid sheep audience, so they use the veil cause it looks exotic and foriegn.secondly she potrays her husband as a brute.
im sick of these western women authors writing about arab, persian and pakistani men who take them back to their country and abuse them.
its like one of those old 1920 american movies were the blonde, white christian/western women gets kidnapped by some exotic other.
Wow, that was scary. I do sympathize with her. She lived a total nightmare. This book should be on the mandatory reading list of anyone thinking of going to the Middle East.
However, Ms. Mahmoody had misgivings about taking her daughter to visit Iran before she went ...
The entire book is just one big complaint by Ms. Mahmoody.During their escape several people put themselves in harms way, possibly even in a position where they could be killed for helping Ms. Mahmoody and her daughter, but she doesn't express very much appreciation for it.
She does, however, complain that every single household who helped them along the way served her "rancid" cheese that she couldn't even eat.I think Ms. Mahmoody did go through an ordeal in Iran.
However, nothing is black and white and just because the way women are treated is abominable doesn't mean that everything in the culture is bad and everything the people do is wrong and horrible.The one scene that sticks out in my mind is that she spends hours every day picking tiny bugs out of the grain.
Plus, who wants to spend hours every day picking bugs out of grain?I read this a long time ago so that's the only example I can remember off hand but I think it's important that we evaluate each piece of a society on its own merits and not just vilify the entire thing simply because we don't like part of it.
"Не без дъщеря ми" не е книга, за която бих писала ревю.
Бих само споделила, че това е произведение, което непрестанно ме караше да се питам трескаво "Аз какво бих направила?...
Аз какво бих направила??...
Бих ли го направила?".Епитети като "разтърсваща" и "помитаща" звучат като клише, но в случая са напълно подходящи.
Лично на мен ми повлия силно, караше ме да си задавам въпроси за самата мен и доколко изобщо бих проявила смелостта да се опитам да се боря, когато съм най-слаба, изгубила всякаква надежда и отчайващо безпомощна и зависеща от всекиго и всичко - защото именно тогава се проявява истинската смелост, не фалшивата и не афишираната, а изстраданата.А сега нямам търпение да си пусна филма, за да открия под микроскоп всичките стоте разлики.
I remember meeting Betty and her daughter, Mahtob, when I was back in (I want to say High School)...does anyone else remember that meeting (my HS goodreaders?)Anyhow...I think this was my first introduction to the middle east and what it was like to be a woman in their culture. I enjoyed the book, I was grateful for her courage, and I'm wondering where they are today.I'll Google to find out. :-)
I've read this maybe 20 years ago, when I was a teenager. Based on my gut, I'd give it 4 stars. Because to this day I remember the book, and I remember how terrified I felt reading it. It left an impression. It's had an impact.However, I've seen issues raised concerning racism etc. which makes me not want to re-read it, and I decided to not give it a rating.
After years of marriage and a beautiful child together, Betty agrees to travel with her husband to Iran to visit his family.
At one point she is literally held prisoner by her husband, and her journey out of Iran with her daughter actually turned her hair gray.
Many of her husband's relatives were actually shocked and scolded him for his treatment of her and their daughter, including his own mother.An engrossing book.
She had lost fifty pounds, her hair had turned gray, and her mother and older children didn't recognize her at the airport.
Questo e altri simili che ho nella mia libreria (Jean Sasson, Zana Muhsen, Norma Khouri), letture per me appassionanti e sconvolgenti di almeno una decina d'anni fa, sono quel genere di libri che si possono e devono leggere, proprio perché raccontano storie di denuncia, a patto che non si riduca a tali miserie morali prima ancora che materiali il mondo arabo-islamico.
I was gripped by this story I couldn’t put it down . It will be interesting to read her husband and daughters take on things to fully understand the story from all points of view.
I was a little put off by the way the author categorized everything Iranian as "bad" and everything American as "good."
"It is bad enough, I find even worse, if personal destiny is used to defame a whole country."
A little partiality in views is allowable as each person has a different view and this is a True story.
But yes, of course as there was another person involved in the writing - Betty merely recounted and William wrote - it is totally possible there were some trimmings to make the story more interesting.My advice- take it with a pinch of salt.
Because there's no way you could ascertain how much of it is true.There is only one point to be learnt from the book that we already know - Cultural differences exist and are important to consider when you decide to marry someone
Prekrasna i dirljiva istinita priča o tome kako ništa ne može stati na put majci, koja želi zaštititi svoje dijete!
Για μένα το Ποτέ χωρίς την κόρη μου υπήρξε ένα από τα βιβλία που με έκαναν αναγνώστρια.
Μέσα από τις σελίδες του βιβλίου η Μαχμουντί μας περιγράφει την οδύσσεια που έζησε μέχρι να έρθει η στιγμή της λύτρωσης.
Είναι πραγματικά ανατριχιαστικό κυρίως για μας τις γυναίκες να διαβάζουμε και να γινόμαστε μάρτυρες των συνθηκών που καλούνται να ζήσουν από τη στιγμή κιόλας που θα γεννηθούν όλες οι γυναίκες που προέρχονται από χώρες του τρίτου κόσμου.
Το βιβλίο της Μαχμουντί αποτελει μια ωμή αποτύπωση μιας ολόκληρης κοινωνίας που για μας του δυτικού κόσμου αποτελεί ένα απίστευτο σκηνικό αλλά για τις τρίτες χώρες μια καθημερινότητα.
Amerika'lı bir kadının bir İran'lı ile evlenmesi ve kocasının akrabalarını ziyaret için çocuğuyla beraber İran'a getirilmesi, orada bir tutsağa dönüşmesi ve İran'daki kadınların gerçekleriyle karşılaşmasını anlatan sürükleyici ve gerçek bir hikaye.Okudukça tüylerim diken diken oldu, baskıcı rejimlerde neler yaşanabileceğini, ve insanların neleri kabullenebildiklerini gördükçe içim ürperdi.Şu anda İran muhtemelen bu kitapda anlatılandan çok daha farklıdır, çünkü aradan yıllar geçti.
Ama yine de o döneme ilişkin ve İran devletinin düşünce tarzına ilişkin müthiş ipuçları var kitapda.
Betty gerçekten çok zorluklar çekmiş evet, ama kocasına hiç söz hakkı verilmeden bu kadar ağır şeylerle suçlanması da pek doğru gelmiyor bana.
bölümünde bir de kocasının ağzından anlatılsaydı olaylar.
This is an astounding, page-turning memoir that highlights how little power women have in Iran. It's hard to believe Betty Mahmoody and her daughter survived their ordeal. The story continues in the excellent For the Love of a Child, which also sheds much-needed light on the heartbreaking phenomenon of international child abduction.
