https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71869.Burning_For_Revenge
What is it about Marsden's writing that has you believing a group of teens can save their country?? Blow up airplanes? Kill soldiers and go "bush" and have you feel every pain, tear, angry and happy( there were a few here and there)moment?! These are a Must read if you enjoy action packed, heroic, angsty books.. They stick with you.. Thinking about these Aussie teens like they are non fictional.. Thats Marsden..:)
As always the book picks up right were it left off,The journey to Stratton isn't an easy trip, especially when the enemy's headquarters lie somewhere along the way.
But Stratton is where Ellie's grandmother lives, so the journey must be made -- even though the odds aren't good.
Ellie must summon all of her courage and guerrilla instincts to surviveI found this book was one of the most action packed books than any of the other ones of the series which i thought was excellent made the series so much more interesting and hard to put down.
Ellie, Homer & the others are back among the action in this the 5th book in The Tomorrow Series. After their failed attempts to hurt the enemy in the previous book, this time they are back with a bang (in more ways than one)Action a plenty & the teens dealing with the psychological & emotional effects of the war & their relationships with each other, makes for another great instalment in this series.Thanks to Mish for recommending I try the audio for this series, you were right; the narrator really does suit the voice of Ellie :)
The Tomorrow series continues in this 5th installment of Ellie and her friends trying to make it through the world.There's very little dialogue in this book - most of it is action.
These scenes are so compelling!
The scene with the barn at the end just drew me in - doesn't matter where I am or how in the mood I am to read his books - I just get sucked in.As soon as I get through the books that I have out from the library, I'm going into the 6th book!
I think I could read about 20 books in this series if they existed.
Once again the kids pull off some guerrilla warfare with lots of great explosions and action.
The relationships continue to develop and I was happy to see Kevin have a bit of a bigger role in this book since he tends to get sidelined a bit.
It's great to see the characters evolving.
I kept thinking about why I love this series so much and I decided that it's because of all the little back stories Ellie tells about the characters.
Loved it!
This ends things with a bang and the unfortunately situation where they cannot trust anyone outside the group.
Things are still going strong for the group hanging around Hell, the next chapter will dive into the betrayal of the last book, I won't be impressed if they don't.
They have already shown some of the betrayal inside the prison but to how far it goes and the why is something I need covered in the next two books.As teen novels go, this series is definitely up there with some of the better ones.
unfortunately they end up having to make up something on the fly when (view spoiler)[Ellie goes into the barracks in the hopes of nicking food, and then ends up shooting two soldiers who decided that was a great time to inspect the barracks for cleanliness (hide spoiler)]...
well do a LOT of damage, before making a very hasty exit while pursued by some rather pissed off enemy military personnel.Our team manage to escape, and end up in Stratton, deciding to go and visit Ellie's grandma...
This review was originally posted on The Moonlight Library After their failure to do anything successful in the last book, our intrepid teens decide it’s time to go out and fuck up the war effort some more.
Completely by accident they find themselves inside the very airfield the missing Kiwi soldiers were planning to attack.
Surrounded by enemies, will our heroes make it out alive, and can they cause some chaos while they do it?Lee is completely unpredicatable in this book.
And Fi and Ellie grow even closer, to totally and completely BFF.This book contains all of the explosions and firestorms and chaos that was missing in the last book.
Still strong, but minor annoyances from the previous books are beginning to grate a little.
The attack on the base, is as always with this series, very tense and the action flows extremely well...with about a hundred pages dedicated to pure action.
Previous little annoyances are starting to rear their head though, a lot of what these kids do is based on luck, and it's getting to the point where they are seeming 'too' lucky for it to be believable, Lee's 'other woman' was also quite stupid, especially since it seems very out of character and hardly any page time was really dedicated to it.
But when they're informed that air support can't be spared to get them out, they decide that it's time to take action.
Yes, they're all still emotionally traumatised by the war.
But their desire to fight back has reappeared.
And it's summer, so what better way to fight back than with fire!
It's a theme throughout the book - there are explosions and action aplenty.
The gang end up in the most dangerous situation yet, and are forced to confront their feelings about each other, the war, and themselves as individuals.
AWESOME i loved the nitty gritty stuff - this book isnt nice, it doesnt cut back on the details because they make us uncomfortable.
it gets right up in your face and makes you feel like your the main character going through this war just trying to survive and help get your country back.
actually its kind of creepy for an older male author to get it so right.while im sure many parents wouldnt want there children to read this series because of the violence i highly recommend it - but i would put an age limit on it.
Probably the most emotional story yet! Whew... The teens accidently find themselves right in the middle of the mission that failed in the last book. Kevin falls appart and the others have no choice but to drag him along right into the middle of the action.
Reread may 2015John Marsden is a genius when it comes to writing action. And writing about emotional traumas.
"I had thought there was no hope. I had thought there was no solution. I thought death was the only option. Now I realised that by our own determination we'd made things happen. We'd found answers where there were none. I promised myself to remember this lesson forever."  Creo que este libro es un poco similar al anterior: es un poco de relleno, y las cosas que pasaron no lograron sorprenderme del todo. A pesar de eso, creo que hubo más acción que en el anterior.Mi problema, otra vez, es que h
"I had thought there was no hope.
I had thought there was no solution.
Creo que este libro es un poco similar al anterior: es un poco de relleno, y las cosas que pasaron no lograron sorprenderme del todo.
"I began to think the damage to our country, to us even, went so deep now that it would never fully be repaired.
I realised the worst damage wasn't the bombed buildings, the burnt-out cars, the shattered windows.
It was the damage deep inside us."
Ich finde diese Reihe wirklich super, aber so langsam sollte es mal ein Ende geben. Elli und ihre Freunde erleben immer wieder Neues und stiften weiterhin Unruhe, aber man ist so ein bisschen müde von den Abenteuern geworden.Trotzdem ist die Entwicklung der Protagonisten großartig ausgearbeitet!
This is the fifth book in the Tomorrow series (after Tomorrow, When the War Began, The Dead Of Night, The Third Day, The Frost and Darkness, Be My Friend) and continues the story of the teens fighting a guerilla war against invaders.
The pace of the book is pretty up and down and it did mean at times I found my interest waning.
One thing I did notice with this book was that at times I found it hard to keep reading, partly due to the pacing issues and also partly due to Kevin.
The final act of the book is also incredibly intense, and really shows the lengths that the characters go to to protect each other - and even forgive something they could never have moved on from in the past.Burning for Revenge is the fifth installment of the Tomorrow series, and although the risk with such a long series is that the plot and characters can feel a bit similar, Marsden continues to up the ante both in terms of intensity and in how far the teens go to try and sabotage the enemy that has invaded Australia.
Way cooler lead female character who doesn't whine nearly as much.Burning for Revenge is the fifth book in the series and the story hasn't gotten old.
I don't know how Marsden manages it because normally, I would think, "Right, a bunch of teenagers are going to take out an airfield." But the characters seem real enough and they have enough screw ups and mistakes that it feels possible.
Moreover, Marsden doesn't make his characters fearless.
I like that in Burning for Revenge, the characters talk more about being scared.
After the failed attempt in Darkness, Be My Friend to hurt the enemy, Ellie and her friends are back in the fifth book of this series, longing for revenge and more hurt than ever.
This book is one of the more action filled books in the series, but it still gives the characters enough to develop themselves.
It is written so vividly that you can see through the characters' minds and imagine why they take sudden actions and how a long time in a war zone can wear you out, not only psychically but also mentally.
Stranded in their home country of Australia, Ellie, Homer, Lee, Kevin, and Fi struggle to find a way to make a difference in the war.
Knowing they might not make it out alive - Ellie and her friends set out to hurt the invading army and give New Zealand the upper-hand in the battle.BURNING FOR REVENGE takes Ellie's story to the 10th degree.
Ellie is forced to examine her feelings about what has been happening during the war - how much she's changed, how much her friends have changed, and what they are willing to do to survive.
Wow, this one was thrilling!!
Their attack on the airfield (at last!) had me absolutely terrified for them, I was certain that all five wouldn't make it out alive.
(view spoiler)[And then later on when Ellie followed Lee - the traitorous jerk!
- I was certain that he was doomed as well...
maybe a little sad that he did end up making it after what he did ;) (hide spoiler)]Also, Fi said oh my god!
If she's said that before I haven't noticed it, because it surprised me that she'd moved on from "gosh".
Damn, this is starting to get boring.
I think Marsden realised that the only way to keep such a series interesting was to keep ramping up the action, but after a while the sheer repetition and the constant tension gets boring anyway.
It was pretty obvious at the end of the third book that he at least left himself the option of turning it into a trilogy.
I wonder why he didn't just leave it there?
I can't be certain until I've finished, but I think it might have been better left as a trilogy.
5 out of 7 books.
I should probably take a break and read something else before continuing on with this series because these teenagers are starting to wear me out.
The action sequences were good but I skimmed many pages of Ellie (Mr. Marsden) philosophizing over anything and everything.
Being in her head starts to give me a headache.
No wonder her boyfriend cheated on her and one of the other kids is having a mental breakdown.
The girl can be annoyingly intense or intensely annoying, either way....I will finish the next 2 books soon but need to switch gears for a couple days.
Another great read in the teen series, this book moves at a frenetic pace and is hard to put down.
Sometimes I find the coincidences get a little grating - they are often on the brink of being discovered/shot/captured and then something miraculous happens and they survive to fight another day, but the strength of these books lies in their development of human relationships and how the teens cope in such a stressful environment.
Every time I finish one of these books I wish I had the next one to start straight away - best get off to the library ASAP!
In my opinion this was a great book. This book kept me on the edge of my seat wanting to read more. The other did a great job showing the characters emotions. I can't wait to read the other five books. That is how good i thought this book was. I just want to keep reading. I highly recommend this series.
I like the premise of this series, and I did enjoy the first book, but I'm pretty sure I stopped reading the series in the middle of this book. I just lost interest. In my own opinion each book felt similar and I became bored. I guess this isn't really my preferred genre. I would like to eventually go back and re-read the books I've read and finish the series. One day...
Menos mal, acción de nuevo! En el cuarto libro no había mucha acción (bueno, en realidad no había) y me aburrió un poco. Debido a esto tenia pocas expectativas sobre el quinto libro pero, mamma mia, me ha encantado! Ha vuelto la esencia de los primeros libros, esa acción que me enganchó.El final ha sido muy akwfsekjdn y no puedo esperar a leerme el sexto libro!!!!
Another great read in the Tomorrow series. Thrilling events in an airfield. The kids' bush walking stamina is remarkable! My son loves this series and I'm enjoying following on after him.
Enjoyable, fast paced.
Would have given this book 4 stars but Lee annoyed me so on principle I have taken off a star.
