https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11378.Elmer_Gantry
There is a bitter truth in the fact that a few vocal hypocrites with basic rhetorical skills and enough confidence to take for granted that all people should listen to them gain so much power and assemble crowds, while careful thinkers who ponder their words and look at causes and effects before they judge a situation remain in the shadows.Elmer Gantry would have done a better job of selling the important message of the book, burning it in exaltation or yelling out his Doomsday message to the listening crowds.
His portrait of a golden-tongued evangelist who rises to power within his church - a saver of souls who lives a life of hypocrisy, sensuality, and ruthless self-indulgence - is also the record of a period, a reign of grotesque vulgarity, which but for Lewis would have left no record of itself.
I hated them, powerfully and corrosively, then as now, and there was for me a giant pouring of balm over my outraged soul as I read this book: These people aren't the first!
But I could be wrong (I frequently am)Ofcourse, all you have to have done is lived in the USA and paid attention to the actions of Jerry Fallwell, Pat Robertson and the Christian Coalition in order to be chilled by the last line of the novel -- and don't go reading it before you've read the entire book.
Part of me is ashamed to have only finally read Sinclair Lewis when I'm already past 40 -- and part of me wonders if I could ever have understood this book on the level I feel that I do had I not been this age.And don't go looking for these characters, nor this story, in the movie version.
I have read the words of Mr. Sinclair Lewis as set down in the good book Elmer Gantry in which this author of the early 20th century condemns organized religion, most notably the Baptist Church.
His main character, a one Mr. Elmer Gantry, as the title suggests, is an most insincere and hypocritical preacher of the faith.
Yes, it is true, my brothers and sisters!
And the people of Virginia promised to hang, yes I said hang the good author for the work he had done...I ask you, brothers and sisters, is this Christianity?
Bigoted Bully in the Business of Beliefs Famous Gassy Preacher Sounds Call for ContributionsA timeless, albeit rather tame, tale of a bigoted bully (who seems close to insanity at times) abuses his power in the name of religion, serially succumbing to temptations of the flesh and the pitfalls of arrogant pride. I frankly expected a more powerful condemnation, but then recalled this novel is set in the early 1900s. It's shameful that the charlatans have only worsened in this country. And yet, it
Bigoted Bully in the Business of Beliefs
Famous Gassy Preacher Sounds Call for ContributionsA timeless, albeit rather tame, tale of a bigoted bully (who seems close to insanity at times) abuses his power in the name of religion, serially succumbing to temptations of the flesh and the pitfalls of arrogant pride.
I frankly expected a more powerful condemnation, but then recalled this novel is set in the early 1900s.
It's shameful that the charlatans have only worsened in this country.
And yet, it could be even worse: a world in which the USA has hoisted a bigoted, bullying, unbalanced demagogue to political power.
On the surface, this is a story of a bad guy, made all the more evil by his using the name of God to hoodwink people and lift himself up for public admiration.
Unfortunately, this is not a book that can be read on the surface and be done with.
Especially the way he treated his long-suffering wife and children.
It holds a mirror up to our self-righteous behavior; the way we vociferously condemn vice in its obvious forms, but ignore our own, more damaging, un-Christian-like behavior toward others.
But suffice it to say that while reading this book wasn't diverting (aside from the fantastic prose), it was beneficial.
Gantry manages to destroy several lives throughout the book and leaves a trail of broken people among those who are close to him.
When Falconer is killed in the fire that destroys her new tabernacle his "career" is over there.Gantry never gets his "comeuppance" in that he marries well and gets his own congregation.As for it's reflection on Christian life and Christians anyone who follows the news knows that there are people who make money from those who want badly to believe.
Elmer Gantry is a womanizing troublemaker who manages to become a successful preacher despite his frequent questionable conduct, and often destroying the lives of those around him along the way. This is really a fantastic book and one that, although it was written 80 years ago, is still quite fresh and thought-provoking. It explores religion and the lives of those who deliver it to us in a way few authors would dare.
As homo sapiens, beliefs have lodged themselves into the present form of the human psyche for the past 50,000 years.
They lack the necessary foundation, such as a moral conviction of right versus wrong or the scientific process, to form anything resembling a solid truth.
As for Elmer Gantry the character, Lewis creates a human in the homo sapien image.
Gantry is the human instrument who is devoid of any real moral conviction and has no need for the scientific process.
As such, Gantry is the conveyor of the feelings associated with forming and discarding beliefs on a whim.
I don't know much about Lewis, but he must have had some extensive exposure to the Christianity of his day.
I found this very educational regarding the religious landscape of America during the turn of the century.
A fascinating comparative study, to say the least; but, more prominently, a blistering rebuke on religious hypocrisy.
Lewis set his cannons ablaze upon insincere Christianity.
Elmer Gantry started out as an unsuspecting, jovial, young seminarian who didn't have a clue what he was getting into.
But, he was promised that if he went into the ministry he could really make a difference in the world.
I had expected that I would know the basics from having seen the movie but the book was completely different!
Excellent satire about evangelical Christians, small town America & hypocrisy and the Anthony Heald narration was very good.
So many aspects of Elmer reminded me of Donald Trump that at times it was hard to continue (and made me hate the ending (view spoiler)[ when despite having his hypocrisy revealed to the public, Elmer manages (with help) to bribe & threaten the witnesses and spin the press so that he ends up being the winner.
(hide spoiler)] -- great for satire but awful for the real world).
His biting, insightful, and humorous look at religious hypocrisy is as pertinant today as it was when it was first written.The pure strength of Lewis's prose is refreshing after reading more recent authors.
However, he does not sacrifice wit or levity for all his precision.There are occasions when his passion overcomes him and his critiques fall a little heavy-handed, but these moments are rare and short.
He never falls to the sort of surrogate lecturing that many 'political' authors do, and so does not risk boring or underestimating his reader.He certainly never partakes in the more grievous sin of lecturing the audience as the narrator.
Lewis takes obvious pleasure from poking fun at religion – and he takes on the various church denominations and destroys them with attacks from multiple positions.
He exposes hypocrisy through Elmer Gantry – who supposedly is a protector of morality while enhancing his career by vapid publicity, name-calling and disdaining the women who fall in love with him.
He also ignores his family while pursuing his goals.This book exposes the lust for power behind the evangelical movements and more traditional churches.
It is also about the cult of personality – in this case Elmer Gantry.
Her character was quite interesting; today we'd probably call her bipolar, and she seems to be the one woman Elmer truly loves, as he remembers her for the rest of his life, even when he moves on to bigger and better venues after losing her.He spends a little time doing whacky New Age spirituality and "self-help" seminars (yes, this stuff was going around 80 years ago too) before he manages to con himself into the Methodist church, and pretty soon he's a minister.
This classic is both opportune and evocative of an era. Helpful as I try to calm my fear of our current Gantry/Gekko president. Shyster sociopaths have been around forever and they are often very successful. Maybe we’ll survive this yooge success. The most powerful man on our planet. Wow. Shoulda stuck with real estate where he belongs.Lewis is a great observer and super witty. I would’ve loved to have him over for dinner. I cherish this book.Moving on to “It Can’t Happen Here.” Well….
1929 Grosset and Dunlap hardcover, vintage.
$4 at McKay, Nashville.
Very happy to find this.
No original paper dustjacket, alas.
The cover art differs from the picture uploaded (see below for the actual cover art of this edition).
The '29 Grosset has a church silhouette and a cool embossing on the lower right front.
Elmer Gantry was made into a lively and impressive film in 1960 starring Burt Lancaster (in a hell-raising performance), and it was one of my dad's all-time favorite movies.
As Lewis' Main Street so impressed me, I'm anxious to get back into the author's customarily acerbic take-down of ignorant Americana.
But simply characterizing Elmer Gantry as a hypocrite doesn't capture the infuriating aspect of his personality.
The novel with the most similar structure would be, ironically, John Bunyun's Pilgrim's Progress, which follows Christian's journey from sin to salvation.
Elmer is the perfect foil for Christian's earnest quest for holiness.The effect of this episodic organization is intentional: The characters change as a result of their encounters and trials, but the focus of the novel becomes the incidental characters and the ideas that they represent.
While Pilgrim's Progress is allegorical, illuminating the trails of life and the Christian's pursuit of holiness in the grimness of the world, Elmer Gantry is strictly satirical.
And that little 0.1% that isn't only about him simply makes the rest seem worse.But let us hear from Brother Lewis a little bit about Brother Gantry's thoughts when he is with Aimee Semple McPherson, I mean Sharon Falconer:It was not her eloquence but her healing of the sick which raised Sharon to such eminence that she promised to become the most renowned evangelist in America.
People were tired of eloquence; and the whole evangelist business was limited, since even the most ardent were not likely to be saved more than three or four times.
I have owned this book for decades but only recently decided now is the time to read it.
It is a look at the morals of a church man, Elmer Gantry, who chooses to go into the ministry because he figures it would be easier than to get a degree and become a lawyer.
He paints the characters and situations so deftly that the flow between Elmer the righteous man of God and Elmer the morally bankrupt degenerate seem to be rational and acceptable, until in the end it becomes undeniable.
The middle of the book seemed to drag a little, but all in all, I enjoyed reading it.
Lewis is condemning not only ministers (the people that are the vessels of God), but religion itself.
He paints Gantry as a man that is uncertain of his belief in God, but confident of his ability as a charismatic speaker and so Gantry becomes an ordained Baptist minister.
Gantry drinks, he smokes, he is a womanizer and when he gets married he philanders.
There is never a lesson learned because Gantry gets away with his bombastic behavior throughout the book.
And that gets boring.The writing is good, most of the time, but I found that often there were sentences that were fragmented and I wasn't sure if that was intended or bad editing.
The character Elmer Gantry is righteous, strident, repetitive, hypocritical and a lot of other things none of which are complementary, and for me, that was the problem with the book.
The flat and one dimensional characters that inhibit Sinclair Lewis novels and especially the constant hammering of his message.
Like watching Woody Allen films, entertaining, yes, but always somehow feeling like the same movie being viewed on a different set.There are many good points about Lewis and his novels, for me though, Lewis's message came through a little too much like his protagonist, righteous, strident and repetitive and ultimately like anything repeated too frequently ..it became a bit boring.
One impression I got from this book is how similar the evangelist Gantry and his coherts are to the Taliban. The evangelists in Lewis' book would do exactly what the Taliban has done or are currently doing in the middle east, imposing their interpretation of god's rules upon everyone, believer or not. They both endorse morality police and have ambitions to rule the world as they see fit.
A wonderful look at the hypocrisy of a "religious" preacher, Elmer Gantry. This book reminds me of Mark Twain's famous quote:"Religion was invented when the first con-man met the first fool."
Or the story of Pastor Arthur Pengilly, the book's brightest star, a sincere and steadfast Christian that Lewis to his credit presents in a positive light.
Elmer Gantry, for example, will turn up in a few scattered references and a cameo in Lewis' 1943 novel Gideon Planish.
(And in a prescient scene, Gantry blames WWII on God's displeasure at people not attending church; compare that to Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson's reaction to 9/11.)I especially recommend Elmer Gantry to evangelical Christians who would most appreciate this thoroughly researched and insightful--even if frequently embarrassing--examination of their history.
Unfortunately for everyone, especially women, and especially young women, Elmer could persuade the devil himself to donate time, talent and money..especially money..to the church if it meant it would benefit Elmer Gantry.It isn't really Elmer who impressed me the most, however; it would have to be a little kittenish young lady we meet early on, named Lulu Bains.
This is quite a blow to Lulu; she has loved Gantry through his trek as a young minister all the way to his esteemed position as a nationally reknown religous figure.Now this is the good part, the telling part.
Elmer Gantry never died; he just reincarnated generation after generation, and cloned himself into thousands of self-absorbed worship leaders.Still as a social commentary, Lewis's work has its strong and weak points.
By that final third, Gantry seemed to excel at being slime, so well that plot points that Lewis should have used to bring him down did not, not even a little.
It by no means detracts from the greatness of this novel; I just feel that Lewis' goal of demonstrating that, in American Evangelicalism, sometimes bad guys win, trumped the potential for a real character arc.Don't let that stop you from reading this novel, however.
The absolute and extreme limit of sensationalism reached once again, right here in Sinclair Lewis's brilliant Elmer Gantry!As always, ol' Red writes about his era in such a relatable way that it's simply bizarre that the story is taking place 100 years ago, which ordinarily seems such an astonishingly exotic time.
The people themselves are the same people, just molded by and reacting to different environments.As for the actual story of the book, there's usually not much plot --- it's just sort of an episodic progression of Elmer's career, in which many entertaining and provocative events occur, just like real life, and like many of Lewis's other books.
Everytime I go to Church, I will always remember Elmer Gantry and try to investigate the legitimacy and beliefs of my spiritual leaders.
The rich and learned don't believe and mostly they find themselves asking and questioning the bible and the relevance of God in their lives.
Elmer Gantry is a spiritual leader or at least he pretends to be.
The question then that I ask is what to do when you know that your pastor or leader is not living a pious life?
Furthermore, are they all not living a pious life?
It's been a long time since I saw the movie but the character always intrigued me.
But as I remember it in the movie Elmer Gantry was kind of a mysterious character that was hard to figure out.
He does vacillate back and forth between times of wanting to be sincere in his faith and great hypocrisy but bottom line everything is about him and his glory.
But what most comes through is Lewis' hatred of virtually any form of Christianity.
He apparently has a small amount of tolerance for liberals and higher critics but no respect whatsoever for revivalists, fundamentalists or Biblical Christianity.
Lewis nicely captures religion with its emotionalism, ignorance, egoism, hypocrisy.
