https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22864842-the-queen-of-the-tearling
What does [that lady] see when she looks in the mirror? Kelsea wondered. How could a woman who looked so old still place so much importance on being attractive? Kelsea saw now that there was something far worse than being ugly: being ugly and thinking you were beautiful.  Because how DARE anyone ugly have confidence in themselves.When I die, I want inscribed on my gravestone "She Read The Queen of the Tearling." Call me unambitious, but that shall be counted among my proudest accomplishments,
Bilbo Baggins could have gone there and back again, and then make another round around Middle Earth, and sure, why not---take a few years to flutter around Rivendell chilling with the elves in the time it took this book to go anywhere.The Summary: Kelsea Raleigh is the new Queen of the Tearling.
Slooooooooowly.Meanwhile, the Red Queen of Mortmesne is wonder where the fuck Kelsea is.
Kelsea makes some fucking stupid decisions and pretty much dooms her country within hours of reaching her new castle.Meanwhile, Javel, the guard, is telling his story, his sad story of how his wife was lost to him.
Kelsea, our MC, has had no one but a couple of old fogies for company for her entire goddamn life and has never been allowed off their property.HOW IS SHE SUDDENLY AN EXPERT ON HAIR DYE WHEN THIS IS ONE OF THE FIRST FUCKING HUMAN BEINGS THAT SHE’S EVER MET?!Therein lays one of the biggest problems with this novel.
The blurb that I got was worded differently, and made this book seem like a flat out fantasy with a medieval setting.**
A bit on the slow side, but I loved the political intrigue and the super interesting world! Kelsea was such an awesome protagonist and there were lots of other great characters, each with their own interests and conflicts. I still have so many questions about the magic system and the history of this world--I kind of liked that not everything was spelled out directly and given to us, though I do hope we get more answers in the sequel. Will definitely be continuing with this series ASAP!

Absolutely loved it!
so. good. just wow, i have no words to describe how awesome this book was.
She saw something happening that was wrong, and instead of doing that thing where they have to work behind the scenes to fix it, she just put her foot down and put a stop to it.Sure, we're gonna start a war with an unbelievably powerful country that is probably going to wipe us off the map...but I'm not going to send kids in cages to be used as sex slaves to avoid the war.Huh?That just doesn't happen in most of the books I've read.Most of the time, the hero/heroine hates what's going on, and eventually puts a stop to it.
Really interesting plot, but went a little slow for me! Here's my full booktalk! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1DtCU...
For the most part I enjoyed this story. I think it was a solid start to this series, but I do feel like it was missing something. I'm interested to see where this trilogy goes!
28 Feb '14 blog | goodreadsDisclaimer: This is a review of an uncorrected Advanced Reader Copy.Long rant ahead, folks. Don't say I didn't warn you.So some time in the future of earth, when the world has gotten so messed up and irredeemable, a man named William Tear gathered up his people along with doctors, scientists, and other citizens of some value, and took them on a huge boat.With the intention of building a new democratic civilization founded on world order and... socialism(?) William Tea
something kept grating on my nerves until I sat down and actually pinpointed what it was that bothered me about the whole thing.Now that I've figured it out, it's going to take rather long, so I'll point out the main issues I had with this book:1) Convenient and Arbitrary Plot Devices2) Trivialization of IMPORTANT STUFF3) Appeal to Popular Sentiment4) Weak and Clichéd Characterization~*~
This was super intense and super enjoyable!
“You win your people or you lose your throne.”  Fantasy.Adventure.Politics.Plots.War.Magic.Outlaws.Corrupted priests.Betrayal.And a young,plain girl in between.You've gotta love The Queen of the Tearling!  “The shipment nears,the cages fill,A voice rings out across the Tear,The cages burn,the Keep Lawn still,The Tearling weeps,the Queen is here.”  Kelsea was raised by the Glynns,hiden away from her ambitious uncle and the Red Queen in a desperate effort to keep her alive so that she would clai
Fantasy.Adventure.Politics.Plots.War.Magic.Outlaws.Corrupted priests.Betrayal.And a young,plain girl in between.You've gotta love The Queen of the Tearling!
Kelsea was raised by the Glynns,hiden away from her ambitious uncle and the Red Queen in a desperate effort to keep her alive so that she would claim her throne.Her kingdom was slowly dying,her people were famished,and she didn't even know who her father was and what kind of a queen was her mother.When the time came to rise,she couldn't seperate her friends from her enemies,there were assassins at her steps and no one she could fully rely on but herself and some magical jewels.Thus the reign of the Marked Queen began.
I've seen a lot of people reading the third one so I'm not sure how many people haven't read this one or aren't familiar with it, but the book is about Kelsea who was hidden away as a child for her own safety and is now being taken back to the kingdom to reclaim her thrown.
I was reading the book waiting for the inevitable to happen that everyone keeps freaking out about but then it doesn't happen except we're just given some mysterious bullshit which was interesting and I really want to know how it's going to unfold but still made the ending feel off I guess so four stars not five but it's up there.
One of the better fantasy books I've read.
This is the most boring, dumb, confusing book I have read so far this year, and I've read a lot of boring, dumb and confusing books.For the record, when someone gives me a book and tells me it's high fantasy with magic, I expect this:You know?
They're bumbling drunks, dumb as bricks and I swear, my cat makes a better guard than they are.There are rumours of a naughty, badass witch Queen who wants Kelsea dead.
Ugh. This book could've started and ended within ten pages, and it wouldn't have made a difference.The Mort/Red Queen wants Kelsea's necklaces, but we're not told why.
As far as I can tell, HarperCollins is not marketing the book that way, but when I read this, "Young Adult" was listed as the second shelf on the Goodreads' genre list (which of course means that Goodreads users are labeling it that way), but it absolutely isn't--Kelsea, the MC, is 19 y.o. and an adult, there is language that at times borders the obscene, and there are circumstances and (hideous) war stories that have no place in YA literature.I'm kind of at a loss with what to do with this book.On the one hand .
there are problems that absolutely cannot be ignored.I think it's time for another list.What I liked about The Queen of the Tearling:1.
(2/5/17) After this reread, I definitely have to bump up my rating to a full 5 stars. Kelsea is one of my all-time favorite characters, and I have spent so long over the last few days gushing about how much I love every part of this book. The character development: amazing. The world: original and fantastic. The political elements: EVERYTHING I WANT IN POLITICAL FANTASY.I could honestly gush for hours about this book. I can't wait to finish the series. (11/13/15)4.5/5 Absolutely fantastic, I desperately want the second book.
Whenever I look in a bookshop and go to the fantasy section I’ll see a sign saying something like “because you like A Game of Thrones.” And then there will be a load of books next to it that are nothing like the series, clearly placed there by some random moron who saw a sword on the cover.
It’s becoming such an overused comparison.So many reviews seem to have let that affect their rating of this book; it appears to me that this initial feeling has distorted their opinions of the novel.
It made this feel like a book that didn’t quite know what it wanted to be.
And yet somehow, my friends, we know  What I liked - Although this isn’t high fantasy, it read like a high fantasy book, and I think that is why some people found it boring.
If you don’t like high fantasy books then you might not enjoy this- I loved the side characters especially the charming Fetch.
I’m not sure lol) Some notes - I don’t think this is a YA book.
Every time one of my friends gives a 1-star rating, I instantly read the review and view the summary of the novel.
I bought the book, and it was the best decision I've ever made.Kelsea Raleigh has been hiding her whole life, but on her nineteenth birthday, it was finally her time to claim her rightful place as The Queen of the Tearling.
Aside from a good plot, the characters in a fantasy novel must not only be interesting, but also fully-developed in the end.
I like reading about characters who are weak in the beginning, but ends up becoming powerful in the end, but written proficiently.
I hated everything but the cover.I’m proud of myself for finishing this The Queen of the Tearling even though it’s turned out to be one of my most disappointing reads this year.
I wish I hadn’t have done that.The Queen of the Tearling tried to do a lot of things and that’s its biggest problem.
I expected to be blown away, and maybe that was part of the problem, but really the level of SUCK contained in The Queen of the Tearling is baffling.
I, as Emma Watson also said, devoured it in less than a week, couldn’t put the bloody thing down..,I wanted to end it, yet for me, for a different reason.Like her, I couldn't hate it, but can't love it either..They called it "Feminist Alternative To 'Game Of Thrones'"!!Come on, it's a "Mini-Game of A Throne" full of feminism, Rant, and even out-cursed GOT.  The Story  A Queen is back when she's turned 19...She must claim her Throne from her evil Uncle/Regent..She must look for her Kingdom, The T
must defend it against the evil neighbor, Red Queen....Yep, that's all, I guess.Oh, and she also must learn about her mother's, the previous Queen past..But that's not the mystery here...The Mystery is the fuss Emma Watson making about the novel..I mean, everything bugs me in a YA is doubled here..A Tiresome pace, Unimaginable world history!!, Too much Unnecessary Characters Describing and inner thoughts..And RANT, lots and lots of rants in every topic forced in every minor related event.AND swears , yeah it's so much of it that I forget it's a YA anyway.She out cursed GOT, seriously in less than half the pages of Game of Thrones, she said 'fuck, shit, bitch, cock, cunt, etc" about 90% more of book one of Game of Thrones..Well..at least the rest of what I hate of YA isn't here anyway..
Edit : 25/12/2017 : I have a copy of the second book but I have no interest in reading it. So I'll just abandon it.  3.5 Stars  rounded down to 3 StarsWhen Kelsea Raleigh was a baby, She was smuggled out from the palace for her own safety and since then she was fostered by two servants who pledged their lives to raise her and protect her until she claimed her throne.when she was 3 year old her mother, Queen Elyssa Raleigh died and Kelsea's uncle, Thomas Raleigh was in charge since then.sixteen y
But I chose to keep reading it because I already bought the second book and I didn't want to waste my money.
But I have to admit that the beginning of the story was pretty good but I got bored reading it when I reached the middle of this book and the MC annoyed me.
The Fetch always made me giggling ❤❤❤ I kept reading this book just because of this guy.
oh and I need to tell you guys about this he took Kelsea's chin in one hand, spearing her with his black gaze.
Thank you so much for reading my review about this book guys!!
I'm just feeling the need to know how it came to be.•A big, colossal no to the lack of communication and basic information that went on throughout Kelsea's childhood and adolescence because I definitely do not see the point, if not that of adding some drama to the plot upon her finding out what is actually going on in her country.
➽ I am itching to get my hands on the second instalment (all the better if I'm provided the info I need about the Crossing, but mainly I want to see Kelsea kick the Red Queen's ass).
I really like the book's potential, but wasn't that into the actual story.Everything was just SO PAINFULLY SLOW.
I'm glad I finished it now because the second book seems like it will be interesting, but the pacing really never picked up.
But some people do like slower, more descriptive stories so maybe this just wasn't my thing.
And I liked that there was the potential for romance, but the story didn't revolve around it.
I'm mostly holding out judgement until I read the second and third books next week, but I feel like a world this rich should have a stronger story.
However, reviews from the same people that rated this 1 star had been giving high ratings to the second book, so of course I had to see for myself if this was as bad as it was painted to be.Turns out I was wrong: It was worse.First of all, the most important thing in a fantasy novel is the world-building.
Kelsea.Kelsea is the famous queen of the Mary Sues Tearling.
Case in point:He was the ugliest creature Kelsea had ever seen in her life.Finally, she thought, regretting her own unkindness even as it crossed her mind, someone who makes me look beautiful.
The plot was awesome, the political intrigue insane, the heroine phenomenal, and the romance?
Forgive me if I resemble a mad woman right now, but this book just truly blew my mind away at how awesome and riveting it was.First of all, Kelsea.
There are certainly a lot of key players here that we would need to keep an eye on in the second book, which makes things so bloody exciting.I do have to say that the setting is very special, though.
Her style of writing is just utter perfection and she already has a high ranking as one of my new favorite authors.From the very first page I was completely hooked and obsessed with this story and it was all I could think about in the 2 days it took me to read this.Legitimately, my day job came second to this book, and I'm not even sorry.I feel like I am one of the only living human being who has jumped on this bandwagon last but if you're still yet to pick this book up, please, for heavens sake, stop what you're doing and pick this up.It will undoubtedly be your new addiction.Now to get my hands on The Invasion of the Tearling and ugly cry over the pages.
Her kingdom has been brutalized by her uncle, who was Regent, and by a neighboring evil queen who demands a repulsive monthly tithe of Tear slaves.Kelsea is the new, young queen and she immediately begins making changes and struggles to earn the respect of her guards and citizens.
The main character is 19 when the story starts and everyone else is older than her, so if anything, it’s “New Adult.”I enjoyed this enough that I am putting it on my favorites shelf and would buy a physical copy and re-read it at some point.Buddy read with the MacHalo group.This book has some very mixed reviews and I have addressed some of those points below.I'm going to start writing some things out here in response to some reviews I've been reading, which I happen to disagree with.
I am so glad that I don't weigh other people's reviews heavily when I decide whether or not I am going to read a book.
If I had, I probably would have never tried this series.
Erika Johansen is one heck of a writer and I am anxious to see where she takes this series.
Reading an interview of her recently she states that one of the books will be a backstory and history of how the Tearling came about and what cataclysm occurred to force the people of a long ago time to flee and shun technology in favor of a medieval lifestyle.
I really enjoyed this book! The concept was great though it wasn't without its problems. Full review to come soon :)
