https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278546.The_Sign_of_the_Crooked_Arrow
Good for what it is...but definitely not one of my favorites of the series.
Yet another fun addition to the Hardy Boys mystery book series.
The story had some exciting plot twists, nothing too major or over the top, but things that kept it interesting.
The author used some impressive foreshadowing that you wouldn't have expected, and things you learned about at the start of the book came back towards the end in a totally different fashion.This was much more on an entertaining read than I was planning, there was alot going on, but never too much to comprehend at once.
It wasn't as easy of a read as I would've thought, there were some bigger words and higher level language.The book overall was a good read, and would be enticing to anyone at all really.
Abby says: This book was very adventurous, interesting and exciting. The crooked arrow was one of my favourite Hardy Boys books so far!
A chain of jewelry heists lead by robbers who use an elaborate method to cover their tracks.
They came up with the idea to use sleeping gas into cigarettes and trick their targets into inhaling the gas using casual methods right before stealing their personal stuff.
Negative HighlightsWith my innocent child-eyes, Frank and Joe's playful jabbing at Chet about his weight and eating habits were just that.
But after a life-time of hearing about fat-shaming and body-shaming, it has created a little voice that says maybe the writers of days gone by were a little mean.
Idk maybe I'm overthinking, it after all, Chet never seemed to mind them anyway
These books give role models to young boys from every angle. The father character, Fenton Hardy is an awesome character, and shares a healthy, loving relationship with his wife, their mother. The two boys model thinking through problems, handling emotions, courage in the face of danger, wisdom to ask for help, and so much more.
I loved these books as an early teen, and when I saw this in an OpShop, I bought it for nostalgia's sake. However, it was not quite as good as I remembered! Obviously my tastes have matured over the years!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This book was an immediate favorite of mine. Great characters and I love how the mystery took them outside of Bayport to a new fun location. Chet’s hobby in this book happens to be judo so GET READY!!!
A most wonderful book that makes a part of a great series.I love it, 5 stars totally, as an early teenager it is very inspiring!! It is a really western book with some well-made suspense.
The storyline is dated. This was an easy read that required no thinking - good escapism for an hour or so.
The actual sign of the crooked arrow played a smaller part here and wasn't really all that interesting. But overall, still a good Hardy Boys story.
I think this book is both scary and adventurous. I couldn't put it down and finished it quickly. I really liked the end where Mr. Hardy comes with the police and saves his sons. I think it is really cool how the robbers got away with the theft. Over all I really enjoyed this book and would recommend it to anybody who likes suspense and surprise.
She told me that whenever she got bored she would read a book, because in a book you can go anywhere and do anything, without leaving the house.
There was at least one Hardy Boys book there ("Mystery of the Clock Tower" or something close, I believe) that my parents had been buying now and then in the hope that I would "discover" them on the shelf and start reading.
Well, I didn't discover them until my mother's comment, but I was soon lost in the world of the two teenage sleuths.I've read many of the Hardy Boys books, although nowhere near all of them.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
The Sign of the Crooked Arrow by Franklin W. Dixon is a book chalk full of mystery. The Hardy boys go out west to their cousin's ranch in New Mexico. They become mixed up in a group of robbers who have found unknown gas that knocks people out and wipes their memory clean. The boys also find themselves up against master archer with poison and a wish to have them killed. I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys mystery and adventure.
This book was really good! It had me guessing until the end. One scene in the book was kind of confusing when Hank, a cowhand, gets a call and says he can't do the task until the Hardy's leave the ranch. This causes the brothers to be concerned about Hanks actions. The book is filled with action and mystery and maybe even death.
In which "Indians" smell like corn, the Hardy's engage in racial profiling, and all Native Americans are necessarily mystical people of the land who can tell the future by squinting and saying something real deep.For some reasons, the Hardy Boys mysteries with more travel and subtle racism are also the better ones.
Well, all I can say is that some criminals are idiots. The criminal enterprise is quite clever - using poison cigarettes to knock people out and steal their possessions - but then bringing in random outsiders to help in the manufacturing? It's just silly! Still, this is one of the better Hardy Boys books, even though the means of catching the criminals was a little farfetched.
This was a classic hardy boys mystery. It had a great ending that anyone would love. When frank and Joe get a tip that there cousin, Ruth Hardy has been having some trouble on her ranch in Arizona the boys grab their good friend Chet and hurry out to her ranch to see what is going on.
I read these books as well as the Nancy Drew mysteries as a child, so it is always fun for a visit with "old friends"...
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
The book was okay,but I wish they were longer and have a more difficult mystery to solve.
Dixon, Franklin W.
Read with miles...
The Hardy Boys go to a cattle ranch in New Mexico
They are good at solving mysteries.
Great family read aloud.
one of the better Hardy Boys books!
read when I was 10 through 13
