https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16418.If_I_Were_You
Although the 1934 PG Wodehouse-Guy Bolton play WHO'S WHO is officially based on this 1931 novel, it feels as if it's the other way around. It may be that Wodehouse was working on both at the same time, but the novel seems a hastily assembled affair, with the author not even bothering to "open it up." It is not a bad story, as these things go, but the resultant novel is weak Wodehouse, probably his weakest since he had hit his stride 20 years or more previously.
Always fun, but this was funner than most.
Despite the more Edwardian feel to the novel it is a great Wodehouse yarn that underplays its more farcical elements.Anthony, fifth Earl of Droitwich, is engaged to a millionaires daughter, Violet, which was a result of his families rather than natures course.
On top of this Anthony has fallen for manicurist Polly Brown whom the family don’t consider to be countess material.
He has fallen somewhat short of his lofty ideals but managed to create a novel of Edwardian manners of hilarious consequence.
Inevitably Wodehouse does not unsettle the social position of the Earl but his attempts to become a Barber of worth are to be read to be believed.
Creía haber leído todo lo que había publicado P. G. Wodehouse, por lo que descubrir este libro ha sido como que llegaran a casa los Reyes Magos. Divertidísima, como siempre.
Typically Wodehousian humour with engagements on and off, identities in question and an Aunt in the background.Lord Droitwich and Syd Price are the two main protagonists and identities are switched much to the family's delight or disgust depending on which side they are on! The family lawyer gets involved as the respective families and servants fight it out. In the end everything turns out for the best and one of the engagements, at least, goes ahead.A laugh a minute and, if I were you, I would give it a read ... tinkerty tonk!
Not as good as the Jeeves books, but entertaining nonetheless.
It's based on The Prince and the Pauper and a few other classical models, but Wodehouse does manage to give it his own stamp with the jolly figure of the hero, Tony, the occasional Earl of Droitwich.
Tony keeps his spirits up despite the turns and twists of fortune befalling him and in that sunniness of character we see the essential Wodehouse spirit and are glad of it -- very glad.
There's a touch of snobbishness in Wodehouse's plot, and it's unattractive, in his treatment of Syd, the other occasional Earl of Droitwich.
Lighthearted romp á la The Prince and the Pauper -- here an earl and barber had been switched at birth. Wodehouse has a great time playing on class dynamics and tying all the characters up in knots before giving it his trademark magical shake and straightening everything out. Anyone who's familiar with "Pirates of Penzance" will recognize the inept nursemaid as a familiar character, but musical predecessors aside, Wodehouse's version more than holds its own with that wonderful snappy dialogue and his ditsy characters.
Anything written by PGW is a delight to read and this one is no different. Loved the hero character Antony and his loving aunt and uncle. The story was short and sweet and what impressed me the most was honesty of Antony which makes him victorious in the end. This book may not be in league with Bertie or blandings but definitely worth reading as stand alone.
I promised myself I'd read a Wodehouse after enjoying Jeeves and the Wedding Bells, Sebastian Faulk's tribute to his style and the original is just as enjoyable. With lines like 'I admit...that he has the crushed, drooping look of a married man, but at present he's only engaged.' and ' ...I asked her how she'd like to see my name on her tombstone.' you can't go wrong.
When he uses expressions such as "monstrous" or "diabolical," or makes a reference to burning decks, leonine dens or winter winds that bloweth, they are not "diluted" by our imagination, which at least would be the case with me, if I knew that, say, "monstrous" was applied in a serious story to a drunken father, which in itself would be of course tragic and indeed monstrous, but in the case of Wodehouse, "monstrous" would gain simplified yet infinitely more devilish proportions.
To continue with the theme of frivolity, adapting such an approach as P.G. has done enables the author to rid the stories of possible didactic or moralising aspects, which sometimes have the danger of rubbing the reader the wrong way.
The third aspect is that everything in Wodehouse's stories seems to have a certain consciousness.
Now in his 1930's hey-day with the established successes of both Jeeves and Blandings canons, Wodehouse finds a hero almost as unlikely as jewel-thieves Soapy and Dolly, in this instance the earl who actually wants to lose his place in society.
To paraphrase the Voltaire Wodehouse is so fond of quoting, everything ends up for the best in the best of all possible worlds.For those whose Wodehouse has yet to extend beyond the better known canonical novels, If I Were You is a fun slice of class comedy and a great way to while away a wet afternoon.

I've been waiting to read this one for years.
If I Were You reads a lot like a funnier version of Mark Twain's Pudd'nhead Wilson, in that two babies were switched at birth.
One is nurtured to be an Earl, while the other grew up to be a barber.
The greedy barber upon hearing of his stolen birthright, decides to give being an Earl a chance through blackmail and sheer obstinance.
The Earl on the other hand just wants someone to love him for him and not for his title or money.
They switch roles and hilarity ensues.
Una comedia amena, divertida, en la que las situaciones suceden una tras otra partiendo del tema central.Pocos libros recuerdo que me hayan situado tan rápido en la historia, en este P.G. Wodehouse te mete de lleno desde la página 1 o 2.
Ni pareció que fuera de este tipo, pues predominan los diálogos y las intervenciones del narrador solo son para dar detalles puntuales.
Como una obra de teatro pero a modo de novela, sin poner los nombres del personaje cuando hablan ni decir "Aparece tal cual en este lugar".Buena novela que predomina la risa cómplice pero tambien tiene partes para la carcajada.

Reading this a year or so ago i found it disappointing.
It read like a play worked into a novel.
I love Wodehouse - the younger Plum especially - but not this one.
When, however, I happened to borrow it at the library - again - I started reading it anyway and found it not that bad!One of the things I apparently overlooked before was a pretty serious discussion - for Mr. Wodehouse - of class distinction and of nature versus nurture.
Plum comes down firmly on the side of nurture.
She had never suspected it before, but the man apparently had the authentic fire within him.
I read them all so long ago and enjoyed them so much that I have given them all 5 stars.
As I re-read them I will adjust the stars accordingly, if necessary, and add a proper review.When I first discovered P.
I'm sure that through this great site I will joyfully find at least a few I have not read, and be able to track them down.My records only began in 1982, so I do not have a note of any I read before then.
I’m sure I will enjoy re-reading them.
I have yet to read a Wodehouse that didn't overwhelm me with joy from start to finish.
It's a switched-at-birth story of an Earl and a barber, and the problems that arise when this long-ago mixup is revealed.
The Earldom is thrown into question, high society descends into chaos, but of primary concern is whether the Earl turned Barber still has to marry his conniving heiress fiancé or whether his heart shall be free to pursue the delightful manicurist working at his newly inherited barbershop.
Don't worry, it all works out in the end.
It is Wodehouse after all.
I liked Bachelor's Anonymous better, but I guess everything doesn't have to be a competition!This book fit the bill: made me chuckle quite a few times and was a fun quick read, but wasn't trashy or a waste of time. It had fun cockney accents, too! (I mean, maybe they weren't cockney, but something along those lines.) I particularly liked the line, "I've got a neadache!" (not a typo.)
Initially I was going to give this four stars because, while it had me laughing out loud, I wasn't weeping helplessly as was the case with many of his fruitier and frothier novels I went ahead and bunged the fifth star on there after one of the characters was described as being "a pretty asinine sort of old ass".
What a perfect remedy for the melancholy of a dull, cold, overcast winter's day. This is just what I needed right now. Although a novel, it is set up more like a three act farce, loaded with sprightly dialogue and other forms of word play. Wodehouse is almost always a sure thing to cheer you up.
A rather disappointing Wodehouse novel, especially given that it was published in 1931, when he was at the peak of his powers. It's obviously fleshed out from a play script, and feels very static and stagy for that reason. It never quite takes off, and while there are some classic Wodehouse turns of phrase they are sadly few and far between.
Another jolly romp from PGW. Given the very limited locations (country house drawing room / barbers shop / drawing room again) and a set of characters with no supporting or incidental cast, I suspect it was intended to be a play. Al the usual Wodehouse tropes present and correct and none the worse for that
Wonderfully done, like all Wodehouse writing. But this one doesn't make it on to my list of favorites only because Syd Price is such a genuinely unlikeable character; I enjoy ridiculous and absurd Wodehouse characters, but a really vile one grates on the charm of the whole work, for me.
Read April/May-ish 2011Absolutely loved it. One of my favorite Wodehouses now, along with The Adventures of Sally. And A Damsel in Distress. I've grown to love Wodehouse's non- Jeeves stories so very much.
Charming little book from the 30's with a Upstairs/Downstairs look at English life. Were the boys switched as babies and the barber is the Earl and the Earl a barbershop owner. Which actually is the better role?
More plot than most, less lovely language.
Cute.
Possibly Wodehouse's weakest work of the 1930s. It reads like a novelised play, and not a very entertaining one.
