https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58367.The_Making_of_Americans
And a great deal of The Making of Americans was a struggle to do this thing, to make a whole present of something that it had taken a great deal of time to find out, but it was a whole there then within me and as such it had to be said" ***********From page 343 - an example of the difficulty and the beauty and the psychology/philosophy:  "The way I feel natures in men and women is this way then.
This is a very sure way of grouping kinds in men and women.
Combined with Stein's repetitious style of writing, it becomes extremely tedious.
Repeating is often irritating.I am rereading as write poems inspired from various passages.
Worth the effort; currently reading this book...Don’t blame me if you love this book; repetitive, nonsensical, tedious, at times appearing to be hundreds of pages too long.
It's like breathing.It's hypnotic, folding over itself and winding through people and thoughts and the lives they were leading.
What a bore.......the same five thoughts over and over and over and over.It's repetetive Gertrude Stein to the extreme.badunreadable
Huh. Just got this email from the Bezosian overlords at GR:"Hi Geoff,We're reaching out because your review of The Making of Americans was recently brought to our attention.
Since much of the review was copied from Nathan's review posted the year before, it has been removed from the site.
A copy has been attached for your reference.Reproducing content without the user's permission violates our Terms of Service.
Please refrain from posting reviews like this in the future.Sincerely, The Goodreads Team"What's up with that?
Who's this Nathan?
Certainly not the NR we know and love...
Is something conspiratorial up here?

Among other things, The Making of Americans is a philosophical and poetic meditation on identity, on what it means to be human living an everyday, mundane life.The narrator utilizes an ever growing list of categories to be able to understand all kinds of men and women, to someday write a history of all types of men and women.
Stein explains her radical method:To be using a new word in my writing is to me a very difficult thing.
Sometimes I like it, almost always I like it when I am feeling many ways of using one word in writing.
As I was Saying, "The Making of Americans", y'know?- tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCEreview of the Dalkey Archive's 925+pp edition of Gertrude Stein's "The Making of Americans" - read from March 14, 2009 to May 22, 2009 (70 days) THIS IS THE CAPSULE REVIEW.
As I was saying I read all of Gertrude Stein's truly mind-bogglingly tediously self-indulgent & largely contentless "The Making of Americans".
This one said yes I will wait till then, but I am now asking you to tell me what you are meaning when you are saying to me and to yourself then that you have not money to pay me to-day for this thing.
But that’s the thing: it’s about the experience of being purely in the present and in tune with all things, for which we use the present participle- not always as part of the present continuous tense, but we try not to stray- to convey this current thing that isn’t a routine like the present simple, but what’s happening right now: a connection to everyone, every thing, every family and every person that ever is or was, the set of all people that ever have been or will be: Stein understands people, and has achieved and immortalised this, and that’s beautiful, but it takes practice if you want to take part.
As I am saying it is very, very common that some one could forgive some one anything excepting the way they have angry feeling, or injured feeling or loving feeling in them.’‘Perhaps no one ever will know the complete history of every one.
[On the right]: Dalkey Archive edition with foreword by Wm. Gass. A really beautiful-condition edition that came from an Amazon seller today. I had downloaded a copy but the book is too massive to comfortably read on a screen and my library had no copies on the shelves. So I got this for less than $10. Very happy with this. It will take awhile to get through because Stein is not easy, but my comprehension of her is good now.
I bought this because John Ashberry put it on the reading list for a poetry workshop. Why? Because he loved Stein's language, and thought poetys could learn something from it. At the end of the workshop, he admited that he'd never made it all the way through it either.
James Thurber said it best: "Anyone who reads at all diversely during these bizarre 1920s cannot escape the conclusion that a number of crazy men and women are writing stuff which remarkably passes for important composition among certain persons who should know better...[Gertrude Stein:] is the most eminent of the idiots."
As I re read this book, I'm realizing how slippery, if not non-existent altogether, the category 'post modern novel' truly is. That is, I'm not sure if any work of avant garde fiction that I've encountered post-Stein/WW2 period surpasses her monumental achievement in this novel. Truly remarkable.

Many people say Finnegans Wake is unreadable, but at least Joyce's "dream language" contains real musicality and invention; Americans surely beats it in terms of infuriating unnavigability. 900 pages of dry and repetitive sentences seems vapid, useless, and self-indulgent in the worst sense, even when perceived as "literary Cubism." Maybe many years from now I'll give it more of a chance and it will "come alive" for me, but I doubt it.
It's been so long since I had my big, big Gertrude Stein phase, but I loved this book tremendously. It's hypnotic, folding over itself and winding through people and thoughts and the lives they were leading.Not for the casual reader, certainly, but enchanting.
I have a few thoughts.The repetitive nature of the writing draws attention to the circles people think themselves into--the statements they make about themselves and others, the observations they have and use to live by.
The language is often simple, but the meanings are multiple and complex.One thing I noticed: she very easily describes the lives of "men and women" and acknowledges that just saying "men" doesn't accurately cover all human experience.
One of the things that my students often tell me in our gender-neutral language discussions is that it's just "too hard" to say "men and women." It adds too many words.
No.Would you recommend it to someone who is looking to read a book which does not easily fall into one genre?
Yes.Would you recommend this book to someone who is looking to read something out of the ordinary?
While one may derive some beauty from the mantra-like endless repetitions of an unbelievably large number of permutations of one single idea, or one single sentence, this gets highly tedious and annoying, very very quickly.
Commendable effort in what is clearly an incredible experimental style of writing.
if you thought ullyses was difficult to read dont try this!!!
its about a few families set in the states and goes into detail about their characters.
When i say detail i mean DETAIL.
its impossible to be able to summarize this book.
Easily the hardest book i have ever read and that includes the complete works of Plato.
Maybe i missed the point in the 900+ pages or so of this mountain of a book but i really didnt see what all the hype was about.
For Stein, trying to describe the history of any one family is incredibly complicated.
And no matter how much effort she puts into precision, there is no end to what can be said about a family, or even about a person.
Some of my favorite gestures in the book involve her promises to say something about that person later, or to write a book someday about that part of the family.
I would say reading this book is like getting beneath this incredibly heavy textual comforter and feeling smothered.
But, oh, how I would love to be smothered by Gertrude Stein!
I read a lengthy excerpt of this book and was so hypnotized by its repetitions that I actually began to feel as if I was living the narrative - a sensation which was very startling to experience, if a little trite to describe. Unfortunately, when I started the book from the beginning I just got bored.
Whoah. This book is 1,000 pages of circular sentences, many of which were constructed in Gertrude Steins's head while sitting for a portrait by Picasso. If you are okay skipping head, the last page includes a remarkable passage on dying. There's also a taped recording of this section at many library under, "The Making of Americans."
I understand Stein's message: words cannot, not have meaning... but not much else. Like modern art I respect her originality in creating a functionless piece of art for shock value but have little use for her writing.
Basically this book could have been a lot shorter and would have made sense. Whole pages of text comprise of young old men and women certainly living,eating,loving and needing to be married and then being dead.
i read the 130 abridged version and it was awesome. i read half out loud and the other half loud and slow in my head. every word spanked mei think the real version is like 900 pages long. thats a summer job
I bought this two years ago as a summer read and I still haven't read it. I am reading it this summer. (Crossing Fingers)
Stein's epic novel is the best primer on pure democracy written. What is an American self? Something continuously "in the making..."and not content with the borders of character
I couldn't do it. I have broken on the rocks of Gertrude Stein. I can see what she is attempting, and I think it's interesting. But I can't do it for 900 pages. I concede.
I consider it a failure to stop reading a book I start (I know some people will think this is dumb; I mostly think it's dumb myself).
But after giving The Making of Americans a solid shot--I read 150 pages, or 15% of the length--I've concluded that 925 pages of it are not worth my time.I get the feeling that I could pick this book up at any time in the future, right where I left off, and not miss a beat.
About the nature of time?) Unfortunately, it's far more interesting to think about than to actually read.
The Making of Americans is more of an experiment than a novel.
Gertrude Stein attempts to psychoanalyze all of her characters by not just explaining their parent's personalities, but also their grandparent's personalities.
It's an interesting approach, but combined with Stein's repetitious style of writing, it becomes extremely tedious.
It's not unusual for her to spend an entire page telling us something that could be summed up in one sentence.
I wonder if she was obsessive compulsive.I've read over a hundred pages so far and nothing has happened yet.
Frankly, I don't know if I'll finish reading this.
Over the weekend I saw a play based on A Geographical History of America, which was...
well look, I'm just glad I saw it alone, because if I'd had any of my friends exchange dollars for the entertainment offered, I'd likely have lost a finger or two in the ensuing fracas.
The play wasn't bad, really, just kooky, which obviously was the only way it could have been, being based on a Gertrude Stein book and all.
Anyway, whew, I haven't tried to read her in years and years, and since I already have this book on my shelf, maybe I'll poke around in it some.
YYYYEEEESSSS!!!! I've finally finished it!! I get it. I really do. She constantly repeats EVERY WORD to represent life repeating itself but it's sooooooooooooooooooo boring!!! And at 925 pages long it's been a hard struggle.
