https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/955725.Elvis_and_Me
A homesick, lonely Elvis Presley was instantly smitten when he met 14 year old Priscilla and began spending every moment he could with her while off duty.
Two years later she got the call she’d been dreaming of and was soon headed to Graceland.
As Priscilla matured, she began to realize she’d been moulded by Elvis to be his “ideal wife”, denying the true woman within.
I was Elvis’ doll, his own living doll, to be fashioned as he pleased.”Priscilla shares with us the brightest moments as well as some ugly truths about the man she loved and their unique relationship.
Priscilla met Elvis when she was an innocent and naive 14 year old, but did not marry him until she was 21.
Also, for all the love Elvis had for Priscilla he didn’t seem to spend the majority of his time with her – there was always his entourage around (also strange) when they were in the same location.
FINALLY (from page 297/320) “I still loved Elvis greatly, but over the next few months I knew I would have to make a crucial decision regarding my destiny.
However after reading this book I have to say I have little respect for the man.
Good singer or no, he had the morals of a hyena.At 24 he met a 14 year old girl who he would eventually marry.
Talk about playing with a little girls emotions.* After years (!) of jerking her around sneaking behind her parents back and doing god knows what behind hers he finally decides to marry her.
While this isn't a hagiography, it's clear Priscilla did her best to portray, and excuse Elvis as a good man, guilty of being a product of his era.
As an Elvis Presley Expert, and Collector with OVER 100,000 photos/items since the late 1960's, I know all of the "resentment" about Priscilla (and the Estate).The fact remains that Elvis loved her...until the day he died.Priscilla did NOT have to write this book.
As much as I respect what she wrote in the book I have even more respect for...what she left out.Priscilla Presley had the GREATEST RESPONSIBILITY cast upon her when Vernon Presley died thereby leaving the entire Estate to Lisa Marie (who Priscilla had to care for and make business decisions accordingly).I do NOT "agree" with every decision that she made...but I respect her decision.Priscilla Presley was the greatest love of Elvis' adult life and this book clearly conveys many reasons to justify Elvis' love.
This is actually a very good autobiography. It is truly through the eyes of Priscilla Presley, and I don't think there's a duck in the free world that doesn't wish they could've been a fly on the wall to witness this relationship.With that being said, I also read this when I was about 14. So the thought of some hot twenty-year old rock star picking me out of a crowd turned this book into my very own fantasy bible. I think I read it in the span of two days. Thank you, Nicole (fellow horny teenage dreamer).
I read this book after my visit to Graceland on September 10th 2001. (Yeah - I will never forget that date.)I found Graceland much more interesting than I would have ever thought and decided reading Priscilla's take on it would be good. Plus the book was cheap. It was interesting. You got to see "the King" through the eyes of his wife and it made him seem much more real and really kind of sad. And honestly - you have to admire how such a young woman was able to pick herself up and move on with her life.
Can someone please tell me why I read this as a 9-year-old? I am struggling to figure this out myself and am worried that the reading of this book at such a young age has caused permanent and irreversible brain damage.Therefore, in the event that I go mad and commit some crazy crime, will some fine member of the goodreads community please point out to the proper authorities that I was exposed to the writings and Priscilla Presley at an impressionable age.
Years ago, I'd seen the movie that is based on this book, and I loved it! And in some ways this book went along with the movie, but I felt like, it was more detailed than the movie. Wonderfully told by the woman who lived it, Priscilla Presley, it is a depicted account of her life with Elvis.It told all about Elvis' strange and unusal habits and how I thought controling he was of her,telling her how to dress, and act and wear her hair. I think that Pricilla is a woman to be admired.
Those that know me, know my love of the king... and I really loved this book. It's from Priscilla's viewpoint of the things that happened during her years with Elvis. It was sad especially seeing how much they loved each other but how his life was spiraling out of control, how their marriage broke up and their relationship after divorce, to his death.
Every Elvis fan needs to read this book written by Priscilla. It's very heartfelt and accurate. You feel that Elvis and Priscilla loved each other very much...time and circumstances got in their way.
It's definitely not conventional due to the fact that he played a loving father and husband for her but at the same time, she didn't have her parents around and they weren't supportive anyway.
I'm not a massive Elvis fan myself so I did get a little shock here and there on how he acted towards her sometimes.But at the same time, I have a understanding for it all.
But if you are just a interested stranger, I wouldn't be surprised if you judged this relationship harshly for I did a lot of thinking too.
I liked the book, I like any book I can look more in depth at Elvis.It was very interesting side of Elvis' one time Wife but it seems either she or the co Author embellished a few things to sell the book I really don't think Elvis was a rapist matter of fact I worked with the guys she mentioned in the book & the said it never happened.
True Elvis had his faults as we all do were only human & we all have our short comings no matter our statute's & being a super star such as Elvis was & is people are going to make a bigger story then they actually were to sell Headlines or magazines.
I never could understand the relationship between Elvis and Priscilla.He was a control freak with a violent temper who insisted that Priscilla stay virginal and yet made her wear clothes and make-up that made her look like she was working at the Mustang Ranch.He was insanely jealous of her, while he couldn't keep his own pants pulled up and had affairs with most (if not all) of his female co-stars.I admire his beautiful singing voice and always will, but ... my gosh, the man was an over-grown spoiled brat and behaved like an ass most of the time.
I bought this book in a gift shop when visiting Graceland.
I was not interested in Elvis at all.
My husband is a big Elvis fan, so I went for him.
Well after learning the history through the tours we took it interested me.
I read almost the entire book on the ride home from Graceland.
(7.5 hours) and I must say that the way Priscilla wrote this book was awesome.
I'm sure she could have really bashed him but she wrote her book with love.
The book really seemed to paint a clear picture of their life together!
Can't wait to learn more
I loved this book and the perspective. I don't particularly care for Elvis Presley, but found the book to be entertaining and well written.
i read this book when it first came out it's still one of my favorites
Priscilla and Elvis got together for the first time at his house in Germany. “He asked me to come into the kitchen. As we sat down at the table, Elvis began devouring the first of five gigantic bacon sandwiches, each one smothered with mustard.”And, then, at Graceland, “When he awoke at 3 or 4 p.m., I was there to give him his usual order of orange juice, a Spanish omelet, home-fried potatoes, two pounds of bacon, and coffee.”And people wonder why he had a heart attack at 42.
It lasted about a day, but during that euphoric time, I fantasized that he would notice me and think I was really beautiful.
(I was not.) Three years or so later, while Elvis was in the army in Germany, he DID notice a very young girl (she was 14 at the time) and she really WAS beautiful.
(What were her parents thinking!!??) Yet she loved him, and eventually she married him and bore his daughter.
To me, Elvis has always been a caricature (once I recovered from my crush), yet her account portrays a loving, generous, gifted, and manic human being.
He changed her into his image of what a woman should look like, act like etc.She was just a teenager and her emotional level had shown Elvis some maturity, but had not grown to this level of living Elvis' lifestyle.His possessiveness grew, as the relationship grew.
Elvis had so much control over people that he managed to even manipulate her parents.In 1963 Priscilla left Germany to be with Elvis in Memphis.
Elvis' mother died in 1958 when he was in the Army in Germany.
Elvis' attempt at reconciliation came too late.Priscilla woke up to the fact that Elvis was a man, just like any other man.
While reading the autobiography, the reader is able to go on a journey through Presley’s life, which starts when she moves to Germany.
Although Presley’s story ends with a divorce from Elvis and his death, she was still able to find a positive light in every major problem she came across.
Everything from Elvis and Priscilla meeting to her moving to Graceland to the birth of their daughter and then eventually their divorce and Elvis’ death was covered in the book.
Each major milestone throughout Priscilla’s life was documented in a way that was easy to follow, but also very imaginable.
As Pricilla says in her Epilouge, there may be many stories she COULD have told, but this book is definetly one for anyone interested in not just the King himself, but of the one woman who knew him best; How it was for her to grow up in the spotlight, to deal with many high publicity rumours and Elvis's well known temper as well as his affections.A great book.
They had the book 'Elvis and Me' on sale in the Graceland gift store (tacky I know!) and so I picked up a copy and began reading it.
I honestly didn't know much about him before our trip there and so reading the book I learnt a lot about him that I both liked and disliked.It was a great read, how much you can believe is up to you as I am sure that this is only the half-truth being portrayed which is understandable.
But regardless, it shows a very dark side of Elvis that his public persona certainly doesn't.
Well worth the read!
Priscilla Presley tells the story of her life-long romance to Elvis Presley.
Priscilla met Elvis at the age of 14, at a time when he was at the peak of his career, but stationed in Germany in the military.
It's shocking, really, how much she depended on Elvis's approval to get along - to stay happy.
And yet it's understandable: Elvis was her first love, and her only love.
But in the end, although it is ultimately a heartbreaking story, Elvis Presley will always be the King.
I finished this in like, a day.It's not because this is the best book in the world.
Of course it isn't.It's because Elvis and Me somehow reads like every bad One Direction fanfiction I read when I was twelve years old.
A fourteen-year-old girl meets the most famous celebrity in the world (who is about a decade older than her) under strange circumstances.
The two proceed to have a really weird relationship where the guy is weirdly controlling.
The only difference is in this book, she eventually leaves him.I honestly wish that would have happened in more weird-creepy One Direction fanfiction I read when I was twelve.
This was written ten years after Elvis passed away. There is no malice here which was nice. Such a beautiful woman, but I felt badly for Priscilla. She gave up a lot - not just by being the young bride to Elvis. She and her family suffered through all the gossip and humiliation of fans and press. A vibrant young woman with no control of her life. To Elvis she was Lisa's mommy and his pretty princess on a pedestal (he was very unrealistic). It gives you an inside view of Mrs Elvis' life as wife of the King.~
This book is insane. The stories Priscilla Presley tells, including how they met when Elvis was stationed in Germany and she was all of 14, are absolutely mesmerizing. I spent the whole book wondering why no one pointed out to this woman that 80% of the things that happened to her were seriously messed up. I wish there were more exposition from Presley about what raised her consciousness enough to leave Elvis in the '70s, but I get the feeling she was on too many drugs to remember.
I respect her for being so honest about everything, not only the crushing fame, lack of privacy, and having her life completely taken over by the King of Rock n' Roll, but for some reason, I just didn't feel very sympathetic toward her by the book's end. There's just something about the tone of the book overall, that really bugged me. That said, kudos to her for writing it, I'm sure there still are Elvis fans out there who are pissed off by it.
A Tale Of Two Worlds!
I read this in high school and I LOVED it then. probably wouldn't now
I'm not a huge Elvis Presley fan but I've been oddly obsessed with Priscilla Presley ever since I saw the mini series (2 part movie?) based on this book in middle school.
In hindsight, I think Elvis's interest in her gave me hope for my own teenage crushes.
Elvis must have been some weird pedophile if he was interested in a teenage girl.
More than half of the book takes place in Pricilla's teen years.
Other than that, she glosses over pretty much everything negative (other than Elvis's known drug use - but even that it's terribly detailed).
