https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28077464-night-school
But whatever it might be, if the jihadists want it that badly, the exchange has to be very bad news for the United States and probably for the rest of the western world as well.Reacher will recruit his old compatriot, Sergeant Frances Neagley, to work with the team and Reacher and Neagley will spend most of their time in Hamburg, attempting to unravel the mysteries surrounding this transaction.
In part this is because of the constraints that the plot places upon Reacher and also because the book has a tendency to bog down in places as Reacher, Neagley and the rest of the team race around Hamburg pursuing a lot of leads that will prove fruitless before they finally get on the right track.
And it’s an interesting enough story with a degree of mystery held back until close to the end.
Finally, I listened to this book on audio, read by the normally reliable Jeff Harding, and felt that his portrayal of Reacher (his lines read in a slow, flat monotone) somehow contrived to draw all life out of the character.
Having listened to a couple of books from this series I’m now firmly of the opinion that they are better left to the printed page.
Lee Child sure writes great books.
I love that Child can write about various periods of Reacher's life, and not be chronologically correct.No spoilers here.
Thus starts the cat-and-mouse game to figure it out.My husband and son are big into military history, especially World War II, and this book gave me an opportunity to discuss that with them and to question them.
Well, I'm assuming it was mostly fictional.In one previous book, I thought Child used too many short, choppy sentences.
I love that, and I have to read it to my husband because I've laughed out loud.I’m sure all Reacher Creatures will like this one!
An interesting throwback novel that has some fans bemoaning the end of Lee Child's success as a bestselling author while others applaud this ingenious spin.It was just the other day that I was discussing the idea of long book series with a protagonist that has an 'active' (read: fighting) tendency.
When it comes to Jack Reacher, the same might be said, though Lee Child has taken an interesting spin on things, by penning throwback or 'flashback' novels to help the series grow while not taxing the protagonist any further from where he ended during the last present-based novel.
I totally see what the author has been trying to do in the past two or three books- to create different scenarios - but I'm not sure the best way of doing this is to go back into Reacher's past.
But I would have liked to see a different, less self-assured Reacher: something to indicate how he has changed since those earlier Army days.
Not the author's fault, I suspect - this is now too strong a franchise for him to venture too far from the formula - but I'd love to see what Lee Child could achieve if separated from Reacher.
3.5★sAfter receiving a medal in the morning, Major Jack Reacher along with two others, FBI and CIA, were buried deeply in a highly secure establishment they called Night School.
The message that had been overheard; “the American wants a hundred million dollars” was chilling – they needed to discover what could possibly have enough value to warrant that figure…Sergeant Frances Neagley joined the team, and before long she and Reacher were in Hamburg trying to track clues.
Mistakes were made – what would be the outcome?Night School by Lee Child didn’t feel to me to be in the same league as previous Reacher novels.
In a different kind of book these obstacles may be valid, even interesting, but not in Jack Reacher story.
Arrogantly oversmart  This may be just me, but while I like intelligent characters, Jack Reacher is predictably oversmart i.e you know he will figure out things by himself while everyone else will act like dumbfucks doing what they are told.
I am neither from Germany nor USA but I still feel it wasn't on comfortable side of nationalism.Now, if you have read this much, I'll tell you why you should read this book:You are a Jack Reacher fan, love quick and easy time killers.
Something different from the norm for this series as Lee Child takes Reacher back into his past and back into uniform.
I liked it especially as we see a different side of Jack as well - more brain and a bit less brawn than usual!Of course he still single handedly takes on half a dozen men at a time and comes out not even breathing heavily.
However he also has to spend a lot of time planning, strategizing and outguessing the enemy and he does it well.Nice too to spend time again with the younger Jack Reacher.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Bubble Gum Fun or On How Davy Crockett Plays a Stupid Part: “Night School” by Lee Child The way I read the Jack Reacher novels is for their underpants.
Because Jack doesn't own clothes he isn't wearing, it means I can know how long he's been wearing the same set of underpants.
And he might carry a toothbrush but there's no dental floss or mouthwash, no deodorant stick or spray.
Or maybe his fold up toothbrush.
And, yes, in my mind, Jack Reacher's sweat always smells of Old Spice.
For his 20th book, Lee Child takes us back to 1996 when Reacher was a major in the U.S. Army.
As they start to unwind the problem, they discover it's a bigger deal than they ever thought.
Griezman, and starts untangling a very ugly problem.
It's really one of the most entertaining Reacher books I have read in awhile.
This book depended so much on coincidences and things falling in Reacher's lap.
The other is that I think Child wrote this with an eye to making a movie.
It really sounded so much more like a movie script than a book.
When the messenger returns to their apartment, he is excited by the message he has received and spills the beans--the American wants $100 million dollars for the item he wishes to sell.
This thriller is an interesting police procedural with the usual Reacher story formula--beating up gangs of attackers nearly single-handedly, sleeping with the one beautiful woman involved in the case, using his remarkable instincts to pull a rabbit out his hat as far as clues go.
Interesting quote from the ultimate 'bad guy' (considering the current political climate in America and Europe): "They want their country back.
Germany will be for Germans."My husband's usual review of these kinds of books is simple: "It was good!
Jack Reacher is undeniably one of my top 5 fictional heroes (which is why I'm so unhappy about the movie casting, but I digress). Night School gives us a look into one of Reacher's Army service adventures, and is as awesome a book as always.
As much as we might be enthralled by Reacher's situational ethics that has stood him in relatively good stead through the series, this execution (conveniently, all the other main characters have stepped out of the room for the nonce, including the German captain, who pops back up to give them a ride home or something) puts Reacher clearly beyond the pale.
Finally, like many monolingual spy writers, Child's foreign characters miraculously speak flawless idiomatic English, including cops.
Night School (Jack Reacher, #21), Lee Child
Got an advanced copy from Goodreads Giveaways. Wow! This is a great one, definitely in my top five of Reacher novels. Reacher is in the Army. A major in the MPs in 1996. He's sent to "school", but, being that it's Reacher, nothing is as ordinary as it seems. From there the action continues to build, as do the stakes. Like I said, I've read all the Reacher books and this is one of the best. Really glad I got a copy early, but now I have to wait even longer until the next one!
My rating: 4.4/5Night School has everything that you would expect from a Jack Reacher novel. It was fun and fast. It was stylish and.... simple(?) who knows?!But It was really good. I actually liked this one better than most of the other Jack reacher novels. This one has more simple story but at the same time it's entertaining. I started it and after some pages.. that's it. The novel ended. Blimey!
For the fans of the Jack Reacher novels (Of which I am big one), the latest story takes place in 1996 when Reacher is still in the army.
Wasn’t sure how I would feel about that, but turns out it is as good as those that take place in the present.
Reacher is sent to school, but in reality he and two others (one from the FBI and the other CIA) are really part of a secret mission to find out what US property or Intel is being sold for millions of dollars.
With some assistance, Reacher figures out that whatever is happening is happening in Germany.
Jack Reacher stories are always interesting because Reacher is always Reacher. The book takes Reacher back to 1996 while he was still in the Army. Interesting plot but I have read a couple of books with this type of plot so I rated a little lower because of the lack of originality.
The 21st book in the Jack Reacher series is a step back in time.
There is a Jihadist sleeper cell in Hamburg, Germany with an undercover agent for the CIA who has overheard something that needs to be investigated.
Reacher recruits Sergeant Frances Neagley to assist in the mission to find the American and the answers to these questions.
Whatever this is about for a hundred million dollars it has to be big.A Jack Reacher story is usually an enjoyable story.
Reacher never loses.
I don't think there is any surprises here.
Not with Jack Reacher assigned to the mission.
In a prequel set in 1996, Jack Reacher is sent to "school" along with two others, one is FBI and one is CIA, reporting only to the head of the NSA, his deputy, and the President.
Each student grabs their most trusted colleague, which for Reacher is Sergeant Frances Neagley, who has reappeared in the most recent books.
Things develop slowly, and Reacher has to wait 100 pages (maybe more?) to beat up his first victims.
The highlight of the book may be the working relationship Reacher builds with the German detective as they seek to avert disaster.
Did Lee Child even write this? Seriously. Reacher was dramatically different in this book compared to previous books.
I'm a huge Jack Reacher fan so naturally I loved this book.What I particularly like (others might find it annoying) is how Reacher applies logic and reasoning to a puzzle to work out the most likely scenario.
I almost find it endearing - tragic, I know.
But I just love following his thought processes.This book is another that delves into Reacher's past while he was still an MP in the army.
Lee Child is a bit like McDonalds - you know exactly what you're going to get.
And he always delivers.I'll be keenly awaiting the next Reacher book now.
3.5-This is a well-plotted mystery and worthy entry in the Jack Reacher series. My personal preference for the character are the atmospheric stories where, as an ex-military loner, he wanders into trouble in unlikely places in the US, in this series prequel he's on more or less of a European spy mission while still in the Army. On the whole, though, I found it a better than average read as is the case with most of Lee Child's books.
He's got pretty much the same swagger, mental and physical capabilities, but he seems a little less, well, for want of a better word, exciting.
It begins as Reacher is getting another medal - one that will be kept secret and in that sense is rather meaningless.
But also as always, the story grabbed hold of all my senses and I quickly got into the rapid flow of things.
All in all, another winner for the author - although I do hope he brings Reacher back to the here and now in the next one.
This is book 21 of the Jack Reacher series.
In this book, Lee Child has Reacher step back in time to 1996; Reacher is still in the Army.
He earned this for action in the Balkans.Reacher is sent to Germany to Night School, which is a tiny interagency group of American operatives.
Child has made a major change in Reacher for this book.
This should not be too much of a surprise as the military is all about team work and Reacher was a career officer.The story is about spies, terrorism and counter-terrorism; all of this is in the age before nine-eleven.
Child has had another book where Reacher is back in the Army.
This flashback Reacher is comparable to one of those dinners you make the first time that originates from a practiced and old favorite recipe book that you have owned for 10 years.
And it's one of the two recipes that you have never tried previously but have used all the 3 or 5 ingredient standard favorites from that same wore recipe book numerous times.
Well it just isn't as good as the one on page 3 of the recipe book that held 5 fresh ingredients in terrific fast combination and took you a third of the time to make.In other words, it's a decent read.
Let's face it, Lee Child's Jack Reacher books tend to follow a fairly tried & trusted formula.
However, the formaula seems to work as the books are always bestsellers....& here I am reading book 21 in the series, having read all the others that preceeded it.
Still, it's nice to see Child shake the formula up just a little bit, with a story set twenty years ago that takes place mostly in Germany instead of the USA.
Night Schhol is, for me, one of the best entries in the series & I'm pleased to see that I still find these books so enjoyable.
After a successful job Reacher has to go back to school and his first assignment from the teacher is to find out why a terrorist organisation will pay a 100 million dollar for an unknown item and who is the seller.
So basically your favorite needle in haystack.
And not so much a scholing but a high priority job for the military major Reacher and he and Frances Neagley and a few spooks are let loose in this prequel episode of the Reacher tales set in 1996.As always Child delivers a nice tale and Reachers' expertise does bring them to Germany where the answer of the riddle lies in the cold-war past.
But then, I thought the beginning of Reacher's story is usually slow and methodical, as Lee Child sets up the exposition.
The plot is unique ( how does Mr. Child think of these unusual stories?) The characters, as always, are dynamic.
The voice of Reacher is so very well executed; it is so enjoyable to "hear" his voice not only in dialogue, but especially in his thought processes, and finally, in his actions.
It all rang true to Reacher's style and character.
The climax is spectacularly suspenseful, and the denouement is satisfying ( except for the fact it marks the end of another great Reacher episode!) Mr. Child hits it out of the ballpark - again!
I've read the whole Jack Reacher series, so have been waiting eagerly for this one.
I don't think I could point to one unnecessary word so far.
It's Reacher personality brought to life in a writing style.
See, Child has established all these little quirks, which devoted fans love, such as Reacher not ever carrying baggage, despite worldwide, constant travel.
This book could stand alone and be read by someone who isn't familiar with the Reacher series, but I don't think you'd become a lifelong fan if you did it that way.
Reacher fans, however, will eat this up, as I did.
