https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128529.Tesla
He's something of a controversial figure and the jury is still out on many of his inventions, including whether or not he actually made various discoveries or if he was just deluding himself.Cheney does a remarkable job of turning this fascinating story into a dry, boring slog.
She breathlessly mentions how some of Tesla's work explains various paranormal activity which she seems to accept as fact, and at the end of the book implies that there's a huge conspiracy involving the US government to keep all of his later inventions, including his "death ray", under wraps.If you're interested in learning more about Tesla, avoid this book - it will just crush your curiosity.
And while history continues to find fault with Edison there is no reason to think him an idiot or an unworthy adversary for Tesla.People seem to forget that Tesla, to his dying day, did not believe in the power of the atom (he was *certain* that nuclear power (from atom smashing) was pointless), that there was no such thing as "curved space", and of course he thought that Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity was total hogwash.
Throughout his later life he continued to make claims of "completed experiments"/"finished devices" that simply never existed.I'll probably read Marc Seifer's book as it appears to be less biased.
The song described Tesla's oddness, of course, but its true power came from the use of Tesla himself as a metaphor for the way that we used to think about science and scientists.
Of course I wasn't alive at the time, but from various sources I pick up the idea that, from the beginning of the scientific revolution up until around the time Tesla died, scientists and inventors were these extraordinary individuals who were somehow able to make sense out of the world's essential strangeness.
Ms. Cheney has made an admirable effort to capture the very bizarre nature of Mr. Tesla's life, as well as to capture the strange things, the wonderful things, that he did and that he claimed that he could do.
"Good," I thought, "I won't have to read that Tesla book on the streetcar this afternoon." Upon thinking this, and realizing how little I was enjoying this book, I returned it to the library unfinished this morning.The author perhaps tries her best to provide a critical viewpoint of Tesla's life, but it comes across more as a very long fan letter.
It's not a fun way to read a book, being skeptical of every statement the author makes, sometimes forcing yourself to pretend you believe her just so you can get through the page.Besides some of the questionable claims (though admittedly I did no independent research...
Ja (sam bio) u Londonu u društvu moga prijatelja ser Vilijema Kruksa kada se raspravljalo o spiritizmu, i bio sam potpuno u tim razmišljanjima...
Mislio sam da su uslovi da se pogleda u onostrano sasvim povoljni, jer moja je majka bila genijalna žena krajnje obdarena intuitivnim moćima."Tokom te noći um mu je napeto iščekivao, no ništa se nije dogodilo sve do ranog jutra.
To je bila trenutna spoznaja, koju reči ne mogu opisati, da mi je majka upravo umrla.
Svaki put kada ga pročitam obuzme me jeza.Koga interesuje život i delo Nikole Tesle, ovo je prava knjiga za njega.
He is probably the greatest inventor of last century; Edison was simply a technician and a businessman, but Tesla was a visionary who foresaw a new, electrified world.
Mainstream science is STILL investigating some of his most prescient theories.
My only problem with this book is that I would have liked it to explain the science a bit better; I am not an electrical engineer, and do not understand the the finer points of electricity.
I was also extremely annoyed when, for a few pages, she delved into some ridiculous Freudian theory to explain Tesla's obsessive compulsive disorder.
While Nikola Tesla is an interesting man, this book did not live up to the man's genius.
This sometimes reads like a list of accomplishments, Nikola Tesla did this, invented that, came up with this idea and so on.
The main feeling I got from this book is that Tesla had a lot of ideas, some good, some brilliant, some not all that great or interesting.
All those ideas were not experimented with, for lack of financing or impossibility to test them because the equipment available at the time was not sufficiently advanced.
And the book seems to read a lot into those non-tested ideas.
An excellent biography of a visionary, eccentric man given to strange obsessions and scientific genius. Well written, well researched, and well worth your time. Briefly for flavor: People speak of decades as if they form natural endings, when in fact they seldom end anything cleanly. Human survivors are dragged into new slices of time with which they feel no harmony and in which they are exposed to rasping change. So it was for Tesla in the Roaring Twenties. [p 275].
Tesla was a misunderstood and eccentric genius who was far ahead of his time, and this book did an admirable job in portraying the man and his work. It held my interest throughout; highly recommended.
Rekoh već da volim biografije...o Teslinom liku i delu sam vrlo malo znala i upravo zato uzeh ovo štivo. Družili smo se svaki dan na plaži :) i zajedno dočekali ledeni početak jeseni.Dobra je knjižica, nije naporna...za moje pojmove možda i previše detaljna...no dobro...reč je o životu pronalazača a ne modne blogerke :DOd izuma i patenata me svakako više zaintrigirala Nikolina privatna, introvertna crta.Verovatno ću zbog toga biti pristrasna i dati četvorku :)
Nikola Tesla (1856-1943) truly was a man ahead of his time.
He was born into an era when the materials that would prove his designs had yet to be invented.
One tesla (symbol T) is the SI-derived unit of magnetic flux density.I think it fitting that Elon Musk, another young man who is ahead of his time, is keeping Tesla’s name alive while carrying out his own far-reaching, futuristic ideas.
If only Elon and Nikola could have been alive at the same time.
The Supreme Court determined that he invented radio before Marconi but the decision was not rendered until the last year of his life.
Almost everything in the modern electronic world is dependent to some extent upon something that Tesla invented except for the incandescent light bulb which is properly credited to Edison.Everyone should read this biography to see how much he shaped the world as we know it today.
Some of the electronic devices Tesla invented and demonstrated have not been duplicated since.
You don't have to know a thing about electricity or physics to appreciate what Tesla accomplished.
Here's to a real genius who was derailed by the monopolies who were threatened by him. He discovered free energy and was brilliant beyond comprehension. You have to read this book to see and understand the infinite possibilities of physics and science and their application.
Tesla was definitely a man ahead of his time. He also seems to be a man that was screwed over by a lot of people.Some parts of the writing seemed to drag, but overall it was an interesting book about a great man.
Mas não ficaria surpreso de saber que, até por conta de Lampadinha, o companheiro do personagem que no Brasil ficou conhecido como Professor Pardal, Barks não teria levado em conta a vida de Nikola Tesla como referência para criar seu personagem inventor.O fato é que, ouvindo a biografia escrita pela professora e matemática Margaret Cheney - "Tesla: Man out of Time" -, pensei no divertido, excêntrico, genial e generoso inventor dos quadrinhos.
"Tesla: Man out of Time" é uma boa biografia para conhecer a vida de um inventor genial que sonhava em melhorar a vida da humanidade oferecendo eletricidade de graça, comunicação de longa distância sem fios e até acabar com as guerras.
Brilliant man, who was ahead of his time! The book wasn't easy to read, but I enjoyed it non the less. It was a first book about Tesla I read.
No, its not fiction, but Tesla was an inspiration to many early science fiction writers, like Hugo Gernsback (founder of Amazing Stories*) that I think everyone who calls themselves a “geek” or “nerd” should learn about Telsa to gain a better understanding of their favorite genre..So Tesla: Man Out of Time is a pretty straight forward biography.
A historical fiction of Tesla’s life would be something I would pay money to read.Then there was Cheney’s choice to refer to science fiction writers, like the aforementioned Hugo, as “science writers”.
Great biography of a legend. The author did a great job of trying to clear up some of the mysteries around Tesla, while still explaining sob of the some of the stranger behaviors of the inventor of the 20th century.
"Perhaps it is better in this present world of ours that a revolutionary idea or invention instead of being helped and patted, be hampered and ill-treated in its adolescence - by want of means, by selfish interest, pedantry, stupidity, and ignorance; that it be attacked and stifled; that it pass through bitter trials and tribulations, through the strife of commercial existence.
So all that was great in the past was ridiculed, condemned, combatted, suppressed - only to emerge all the more powerfully, all the more triumphantly from the struggle." - Nicola TeslaIt is very true that want of means, selfish interest, pedantry, stupidity, and ignorance has cost Tesla the recognition he rightly deserves.
Nikola Tesla was a genius inventor, and he certainly did not fall into the stereotypical geek category, being almost a playboy, and he also suffered from some phobias and obsessions that must have been hell for him. All of it makes for an interesting read although there were long spots in the book that were less interesting. Nevertheless, if you like the subject matter, I would highly recommend!
If your grasp of the principles of electro-magnetism are a little rusty, be prepared to do some external study as you read this book or you will not understand what Tesla's inventions were all about.
His ideas and his work generating and transmitting electrical power, broadcasting radio, and robotics pre-dated the likes of Edison and Marconi and other better known scientists and inventors.
Edison viewed direct current as the only safe way to deliver electrical power and he conducted demonstrations in which he killed animals (dogs, even an elephant) in public through electrocution using Tesla's "dangerous" alternating current in order to convince the masses that AC was too dangerous to bring into their homes.
Cheney clearly has a soft spot for Tesla, but avoids shading him too rosily; as quick as she is to expound upon his engineering genius and lovable quirkiness, she's just as quick to showcase his egocentricity, flightiness, obsession with money, and bigotry.
The reader comes away from this biography with a greater appreciation of Tesla as a human being, more flawed than the Facebook memes paint him, but no less brilliant.
All around a decent book for anyone interested in learning a bit more about Nikola Tesla.
If you know nothing about Tesla, you'll find out a lot of interesting things, like I did.
And if I was to guess, I'd guess that Cheney did the most with the limited source material on Tesla, the man, that she could.
There's a multi-page Freudian analysis of Tesla that includes absurd Freudian gobbledygook about nipples, maternal figures, and other nonsense.
Still, Tesla is an iconic figure and lived an interesting if ultimately sad feeling life.
From his time working for Edison to his eventual death in a hotel room, alone and near insanity, the book portrays a sympathetic picture of a somewhat mad genius.
A few speculations are also made of Tesla's private life, since he never seems to have married or formed any lasting relationship with any women.
Ultimately though, this book is a great way to learn about Tesla's lasting contributions towards transmission of electricity, wireless radio and energy.
Read it and weep learning about the fate of one of the 19th/20th century's most underappreciated genius
Entre muchas otras cosas creó la radio, los rayos x, el radar, la electricidad como la conocemos hoy (autor de la corriente alterna); sus patentes hicieron posible generar electricidad de las cataratas del Niagara e ideó un modelo para transmitir electricidad sin cables usando la atmósfera como conductor.
Hacia el final de su vida uno de sus grandes intereses fue la comunicación interplanetaria, con seres de otros mundos.
Un hombre adelantado a su tiempo, sus inventos —muchos no desarrollados— seguirán marcando el futuro en los próximos años, aunque sean otros los que se lleven el crédito.
These days Edison is always personified as the great American inventor yet he comes off more as a crass capitalist when his works are set beside those of Nikola Tesla.
Everything that humankind takes for granted in the 21st Century , all of our technological marvels, spring from the mind and experiments of this fantastic Serbian inventor: Alternating Current (far more powerful than Edison's Direct Current), Radio, Robots, X-Rays, Neon Signs, Flourescent Lights, WIRELESS lights drawing their power from the charged air around them- Tesla was a man centuries ahead of his time.
Great pacing and an obvious dedication prolonging the memory of Tesla's achievements make Cheney's work one that will be perused by me again and again.
An enlightening and inspiring look into the life of one of the most brilliant, mysterious, and yet uncelebrated inventors of all time.
Cheney's quest is that of posthumous revival: to remind the world of the man who changed it arguably more than any other.
Although not a source for technical examination of the seemingly unending stream of contributions to science, engineering, and countless industries, the PhDs as well as the doctorate-less should find the description of his work both understandable and wondrous.Cheney uses all available sources to paint an insightful portrait of the eccentric genius, as well as to attempt to set the record straight regarding the tumultuous relationships with his contemporaries: Edison, Westinghouse, Kelvin, Marconi, JP Morgan, Einstein, FDR, and even Mark Twain.
One of the great mysteries of the 20th century is why this genius is so obscure and Thomas Edison so widely known and revered: the fact that Edison was a good-old-boy from Ohio with lower middle classes interests while Tesla spoke with an accent, wrote poetry and never married may have had something to do with it.
Everyone who has ever been interested in inventions, the space program, computers or technology at large, should read this.
For that matter, anyone interested in the history of the late 19th century and the 20th should read it as well.
This book was written with the obvious agenda of portraying Tesla to be the poor genius who was taken advantage of.
I want to learn about the man and his inventions, and not be constantly bombarded with pity and sentiment.
This book aims to put back all of that credit x 10000 times more.
I have to be honest, I could not finish the book.
The descriptions of his inventions also leaves much to be desired.
I may return to this book someday in the future or I may try to find a different text about tesla that doesn't have such a ridiculously biased undertone.
In Tesla: Man Out of Time, by Margaret Cheney, Tesla's life after immigrating to the United States of America is brilliantly uncovered. The information about the early part of his life is somewhat sketchy, due to the fact that information regarding Tesla during that part of his life is rare. This book contains many of Tesla's odd habits and eccentric behaviors. Tesla: Man Out of Time is a lone book. For most of his life, Tesla lived in New York. I would recommend this book to Tesla fans over the age of 15.
