https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36203391-my-year-of-rest-and-relaxation
All of which makes me say: "SO WHAT?"Ottessa Moshfegh does write about icky things people do, magnifies the cruel dark bits of life we would rather gloss over.
And I wanted to know if she would be 'alright'.Her drugged year ends just before 9/11, which is the most jarring wake-up call Moshfegh could summon.I recognised a few similarities to Eileen - both protagonists are 24 year old females, drowning in insufferable inner worlds.
Probably because – funny story – ironically, this book is about a character who does what I always say I’d like to do: have the ability to put my life on pause for just a few days to rest, to think, to recharge.
So, with the help of a zany and negligible psychiatrist who’s first and only line of doctoring is to pull out her prescription pad, our narrator dives deeper and deeper into the world of prescription drugs—and the psychological effects of them—in her quest to sleep away a year of her life.My Ambien, my Rozerem, my Ativan, my Xanax, my trazodone, my lithium.
Audiobook...read by Julia WhelanQuestions I had were:“Are there really psychiatrists this bad?” and who has friends like Reva?
I enjoyed the journey to the end too - the dialogue- the absurdity!
Limited TV: (Whoopi Goldberg and Harrison Fordwere favorites for our narrator) ...No social media - no crazy psychiatrist or friends like Reva coming over???A full year to REST??I could do without the drugs - thank you - but I’d get massages - and spend time in nature....
It’s a great fantasy- a year off to rest and relax.
I’d like to bring Paul with me though.
Rating 4.5 starsI was a fan of Ottessa Moshfegh after reading her book Eileen.
I'm so happy to say I really enjoyed...odd choice of words considering the subject matter....this read and can't wait for her next book.My Year of Rest and Relaxation is a hard one to talk about in a review.
It's about an unnamed narrator telling her story of taking a year off from life to sleep.
(/rant off)One thing that I really liked about the authors book Eileen was I felt in was an in-depth character study about one sad soul.
Written to take place in the year 2000-2001, it’s a novel based heavily in our transition from 1990’s affluence and innocence and relative ease, into the early 2000’s height of terrorism and anxiety.
Our narrator, nameless, lifeless, thin, beautiful, rich, orphaned, plans on spending a year in hibernation to sleep away her emotions, wrapped up in a cocoon of colorful pharmaceutical helpers.
Our narrator is as completely disinterested with herself as she is in the rest of the world, which impresses me in a way I can’t put my finger on.
Our narrator only wants to sleep.
Listening to this book was like watching Girls.Occasionally funny and occasionally insightful in a limited WASP-y kind of way, but mostly ridiculous, privileged, pointless, and, finally, thin.
FIVE SARDONIC STARS My repeated claim to love unlikable characters is put to the test in this darkly irreverent, strange fable. I’m sticking to my claim. I do love most of the unlikable people in My Year of Rest and Relaxation. Humor goes a long way when writing unpleasant characters! The author is sophisticated and brilliant when it comes to injecting absurdly wry observations on both the glitter and the grime of New York City. Contrary to the lovely 18th century painting of a leisurely young w
My repeated claim to love unlikable characters is put to the test in this darkly irreverent, strange fable.
Moshfegh uses it to dazzling irony and, you better believe, I was stunned into a silent reflection that so few contemporary novels are able to achieve.Just reading about our never-named character craving sleep all the time, seduced my own mind and I could often hear my pillow calling my name while listening to this perfectly narrated audiobook (Julia Whelan-is the goddess of audio acting!).
BREAKING NEWS: The fabulous Margot Robbie has just optioned the film rights—she would be perfectly cast as our never-named, disturbed Sleeping Beauty!💗
4 Stars! I am overcome by awe, not because she looks like Reva, and I think it's her, almost exactly her, and not because Reva and I had been friends, or because I'll never see her again, but because she is beautiful. There she is, a human being, diving into the unknown, and she is wide awake This was my first Otessa Moshfegh novel and it lived up to the hype. The cover threw me off as it almost has a historical fiction look to it but I will tell you that this is not anywhere near historical fic
The cover threw me off as it almost has a historical fiction look to it but I will tell you that this is not anywhere near historical fiction.This is a story about a young twenty something, who I just realized never reveals her name as she's the narrator of this book - interesting choice by the author, who has everything and at the same time feels like she has nothing.
Pretty brutal and absolutely brilliant.
This is a book narrated by a very depressed and beautiful young woman who has graduated from college, works in an art gallery, and lives in New York, the year is 2001.
She was recently lost both her parents, her father to cancer, and her mother close afterward from pills/alcohol.
She finds a psychiatrist who really is a horrible doctor, a pill pusher..
along with her one friend Reva, a gal she was in college with and really the only friend mentioned besides the sometimes boyfriend.Some of this is hilarious....
This was bizarre and wonderful. I absolutely love Moshfegh's weirdness. She doesn't shy away from the things people usually hesitate to discuss, and she's fine with making her main characters off-putting. It's so refreshing to read. And that last page really took it all home. Like her other works, this novel will not be for everyone; but I think the people who like it will really like it. I sure did.
I was “on drugs.” I took upwards of a dozen pills a day. But it was all very regulated, I thought. It was all totally above board. I just wanted to sleep all the time. I had a plan. “I’m not a junkie or something,” I said defensively. “I’m taking some time off. This is my year of rest and relaxation.”  This novel is by Ottessa Mosfegh – author of Eileen, my views of which were neatly captured by the Sunday Times recent review of this book: Billed as a thriller, Eileen was more of a mystery, a m
This novel is by Ottessa Mosfegh – author of Eileen, my views of which were neatly captured by the Sunday Times recent review of this book: Billed as a thriller, Eileen was more of a mystery, a mystery as to how it ever got published, let alone garnered comparisons to Nabakov and wound up on the Man Booker shortlist.Eileen was one of a number of books (for example Sorry to Disrupt the Peace) that spearheaded the “unlikeable female” narrator genre –relying on confrontational, unfiltered behaviour and calculated “grossness” (the first of which I can appreciate, the second of which always reminds me of nothing more than my experience in youth groups with young-ish children who think they can shock leaders by using swear words and sexual terms they have just learnt).My view of Mosfegh’s books was not assisted by a number of (again deliberately but childishly) provocative interviews she gave leading up to the award – in particular making it clear that she was nothing like her “loser” protagonist with a much more successful and fulfilled life.
The unnamed narrator of My Year of Rest and Relaxation may be obscenely privileged, but her life is bleak.
It’s a bold narrative choice, and it effectively mimics the way depression saturates everything with dread and makes you feel like you’re sleepwalking through a hopeless, pallid world.
Like Homesick, it is a draining reading experience (this might be fitting or ironic, depending on how deliberate you believe it to be) and, at its worst, it feels pointless.I had a strong reaction to some elements of My Year of Rest and Relaxation, which is why I needed to let it percolate, reread a few parts, to really see how good it is.
Sleep as a tonic for griefA mesmerizing peek into the self-medication of a young woman who wants to sleep for a year and wake up rejuvenated and ready to live. She only has one friend and has been let go from her job. At times the conversations she has with her best friend, Reva, are absurd and others sad, she has just lost her parents and an older, very selfish lover, so she wants to do a rewind, like on her beloved VCR, this takes places in 2000 until 2001.
During the course of the book, we learn more about the sources of her depression, her parents, the NY art and hipster scene (I actually like those people, still I found the descriptions hilarious), her only friend, the insecure Reva, and her older on/off boyfriend Trevor, whom she loves although (or because?) he is not treating her well, to put it mildly.
Her presence made the show completely absurd" - our protagonist can't laugh at the production that is her life, and by the end of her experiment, 9/11 will bring yet another twist.
Our unnamed narrator is a beautiful, smart, wealthy New York twenty-something that has decided that she wants to take the next year of her life off by taking a concoction of pharmaceutical drugs prescribed by her wacky psychiatrist that will keep her in a perpetual sleep like state.
Her best friend Reva doesn't understand why she would want to sleep for a year and she tries to, on occasion, to get her to go out into the real world.
"Try these" she said handing me a sheath of prescriptions.
*i received an ARC of this novel through a Goodreads giveaway. which i suppose means final text is still subject to change but i wouldn't get my hopes up.what a dreadful waste of words. i guess i'm glad the middle of the novel so sedated me in its banality that the utterly cheap 9/11 conclusion was merely offensive rather than absolutely enraging.moshfegh is clearly a talented writer, and her entertaining wit sneaks through in moments throughout the novel. one only hopes that she will one day free her talents from the shackles of stereotypical MFA melodrama.
one of the most engrossing and fascinating stories i've ever read. the last page + line just kicked me in the stomach
The risk of writing something about a truly awful, privileged person’s severe, mind numbing, repetitive depression is that, you know, that’s what it will feel like.
Had I not had a library deadline, I think I might have put it down on my library shelf and felt a overwhelming tiredness about the idea of ever picking it up again.And the kicker is that after she puts the reader through everything she does, it seems like she didn’t know to wind it up: and so we get this weirdly heavy handed and clumsy 9/11 symbol of an ending that wasn’t just anti climatic, it was from another book entirely.
If I fell in love with her work with Eileen, then this book has sealed my adoration.
I was twenty-four years old.’ The unnamed narrator self-medicates with the help of a crazy-mad psychiatrist (‘there was no shortage of psychiatrists in New York City, but finding one as irresponsible and weird as Dr Tuttle would be a challenge’) in order to sleep her way through life – but actually, there’s a strange but compelling method behind her madness: ‘it was the opposite of suicide.
but I finished wondering what the point of it all is.If you've read any review of this you'll know the premise - a young and privileged New York residing woman decides she wants to sleep for a year, and recruits an unhinged psychiatrist to prescribe her with a huge cocktail of pills to help her achieve her aim.
The book then follows her throughout the year, culminating in a predictable ending (if you've picked up on any of the clumsy clues throughout the book).There are a couple of other supporting characters -- our unnamed narrator's only friend, Reva, another privileged young woman who only seems to care about losing weight (she's bulimic) and getting her hands on designer clothes.
I read this as a pitch black comedy for the most part but it is also a provocative portrait of alienation, social striving and new millennium malaise ( is that a thing ?, I feel like it should be).
There is a Hunter S Thomson like level of drug taking occurring in these 200 plus pages, almost all pharmaceuticals prescribed by literature's most hilariously scary psychologist - Dr Tuttle.
However, once I elected to approach this as a provocative and somewhat cynical art instalment then I ended up enjoying myself.
The main characters resolute nihilism became endearing and her inescapable lassitude seemed to capture something I think we all feel.
And I still feel like I’m playing it.”I loved Eileen – I don’t remember the story well now but at the time remember thinking that Moshfegh could 1) really write, 2) was original, and 3) knew how to work with unlikeable characters.With that in mind, I couldn’t wait to get my hands on My Year of Rest and Relaxation.
So this felt like the perfect novel: a character who spends the majority of their time in bed.
A very Moshfegh novel with its cast of unlikeable characters and general weirdness coupled with excellent writing.
This book definitely comes with an interesting premise that plays upon a world in which some people become lost in their own grief and rely heavily on drugs and medication.
However, this novel also feels highly unrealistic to me: How realistic is it that an educated, professional psychiatrist can’t see what’s in front of her and keeps on prescribing medication to a heavily sedated woman?
And how realistic is it that a young woman decides to revive herself by sleeping from her problems.
Nevertheless, this book is definitely intriguing and like nothing else I’ve ever read, so give it a read and see for yourself what you think :)
Moshfegh’s done it again!
Moshfegh’s most darkly hilarious book yet works on so many levels that I’d like wait a few months, take another dip in My Year of Rest and Relaxation and return with more in-depth thoughts than, “I loved it!” There’s lots to unpack here, but it’s less stuffy than a lot of literary fiction, so don’t let that scare you away.
It’s a book that spoke to me about millennial entitlement and strife through dynamite prose.
Moshfegh’s not for everyone, but I think this is her most accessible book to date.
Somehow this book did something to me. The thought of going to sleep for a year and awaken in a new life, a new self... It sets you thinking... I guess sometimes we all hope sleep could change reality for us.
Ugh This book has received numerous accolades, which is why I picked it up, but I am not even sure what the point of this story is. Pre 9/11 and our main character, a Columbia graduate, decides to hibernate from society for an entire year by popping pills, power sleeping, and watching VHS movies on her tape player. We meet her Dr. who prescribes her any pills she wants, her on/off again dick of a "boyfriend", and her "best friend", whom she despises. Blah blah blah. A true waste of time...
But not just 8 hour a night sleep - she wants to pass an entire year mostly unconscious, which she attempts to achieve with the help of a cocktail of pharmaceuticals prescribed by the least qualified psychiatrist of all time who she happened to find in the yellow pages.
It's an interesting look at repression as a coping mechanism, as well as the lengths we're willing to go to to avoid the things we don't want to face.Ironically, while the narrator's goal is laid out plainly from the first page - she wants to sleep for a year - Moshfegh's agenda with this novel is much more opaque.
An hour or so in, I thought “I think I missed the narrator’s first name,” but would realize it was never mentioned: that is how much I was paying attention.The whole book was just his uppity, privileged, vain young woman who cons her crazy psychologist to prescribe her loads of pills so she can essentially sleep for a year.
I think it was mean to be this profound last sentence, but I thought it trivialized a moment in history and it actually angered me.

