https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216304.A_Woman_After_God_s_Own_Heart
This section blurs the lines between being a good Christian wife and being a good doormat.
Elizabeth George paints a picture of a wife who borders on husband worship, and while I agree that we should apply scripture to our marriages, George strips all other purpose given to the wife when she offers her guidance in this section.
I was really disappointed by this and it left me with a poor opinion of this book overall.Another thing to mention is that this book really cannot be applied to those women who are not married with children.
I read this book every so often to refresh me on how my marriage should look. I love these books they are honest and hard hitting, but wonderful in setting straight the role of a woman in marriage. I first read this book to fix my husband, but I ended up crying out to God to change myself after reading how wrong I was to be so selfish in my marriage. Elizabeth George is not afraid to tell it how it is and she definitely says it in love.
This book was chock full of practical advice and stories to help you along you own walk with God. Elizabeth George covered a variety of topics she had found in the Bible to be important to being a woman after God. My only complaints were that I wish it were organized better.
And separating the chapters with a dividing page for each section would have been nice since the name of the chapters didn't describe which topic we were on (husband, home, kids, etc.).
I thought it was going to be a book more about David and how to have a walk like his.
So far I have enjoyed the chapters on building your home and prayer.
My issue with George's book is how she handles biblical servitude.
In the section on Godly training, she suggests driving your children to as many church and youth group activities as possible even if it requires going to bed and setting your alarm for the middle of the night so you can go pick them up.
She makes it sound like her children were barely at home between school, church, and activities.
I found much of what she suggests to be cultural more than biblical.
Elizabeth George comes off as an arrogant, condescending woman who thinks she's perfect.
I like Beth Moore so much better than Mrs. George because although Mrs. Moore is spiritual and obviously has a lot of spiritual wisdom to impart to women, she is real.
She neither tries to portray herself as someone who is perfect nor as someone who has a legalistic relationship with the Lord.
Seriously, I would hate to be Mrs. George's child.
Despite all of these problems, Mrs. George does have some valuable things to say.
It looks like I'm the only man posting about this book. I'm glad my wife would not conform to this book. If I am the king as Ms. George suggests, my wife is an equal queen – just as powerful, a partner in ministry, and the faithful co-servant of Jesus. Men should not be afraid of powerful women. I would hope that my wife is unfaithful because I'm the boss, but that she's faithful because she's free to love and serve.
One of my favorite books of all time. I have no idea how many times I've read it, but each time I do it helps me tremendously. Anyone having trouble knowing what her priorities as a woman should be, really ought to dig into this amazing and life-changing book.
#1 God#2 Husband#3 Kids#4 Home#5 My Spiritual Growth#6 My Ministry Activities#7 Other ActivitiesThe only thing I found a little disheartening about the book is that it definitely assumes stay-at-home mom.
Time with God helps us grow and impact others exponentially.One of my personal favorite takeaways from this book is Elizabeth's advise to create "Five Fat Files" - to pick 5 areas that I want to grow in and fill it with articles, notes, etc.
Time Management!This is a read, but my favorite Elizbeth George book (so far) is still Life Management for Busy Women: Living Out God's Plan with Passion & Purpose!
August 12th update: This is about the 7th time I've read this book and I love it just as much (if not more) each time.
********************I've read this book about 5 times now over the past 12-15 years...
and I'm amazed by how "fresh" it seems to me every single time I read it.
Its such a classic.
I will always, always love this book.
Its unapologetic but yet very much grace-filled...
but every time I feel the urge to read this book, I know its because I need to relearn some of its lessons.
I usually don't write reviews but...I wouldn't recommend this book for any new Christian woman. It blurs the line between husband worship and being a godly wife, according to scripture, as other reviews have mentioned.While I was reading this, I couldn't help but think of all the women of the Bible who were leaders, who were bold, who had purposes much more than being a good wife and standing behind their husband to be his servant.There was some great advice in here, but overall it blurs the lines too much for me.
I found this book to be very good when it comes to giving advice on spending time with God. In regards to how we are to treat our husbands it borders on husband worship, and comes pretty close to making our husbands an idol.
I like the easy reading and then the study guide portion that helps you think through what you just read - it's a great combination for aiding in spiritual growth.I personally think this book can be used in just about any setting - individually, one-on-one, group Bible study, and even hand-in-hand with the teen version for a Mother/Daughter study.BOOK OVERVIEW:A new cover and fresh updates enrich Elizabeth George’s bestselling A Woman After God’s Own Heart® (over 735,000 copies sold).
This book is exactly what I needed right now.
I'd say it's very counter-cultural, but very Biblical.
Great insight as to what it means to be a Christian wife, mother, and homemaker.
Very challenging to me, but I can't say that I really disagreed with much that she said.
I'm already starting to put some of the principles into practice and can tell a difference.
I know this is going to be a book that I will carry with me for a long time and probably re-visit many times.
I highly recommend for any Christian woman, especially young women just starting out with their families.
Our group is doing this study without the video. It can be done, but the video may add a lot more to it. If you can't afford the video, I suggest supplimenting your study with her book by the same name. The book fills in the gaps. We also found that within one week she repeats herself in the questions. The question may be worded differently, but it is the same message. Perhaps repetition helps one to learn the lesson more. I highly recommend this study. It will bring you closer to God.
I loved this book. I think anyone who wants to know how to be a better woman, mother, and wife should read this book
Through her exploration of the precepts of womanhood in the Bible, she lays out the lost art of being a secure and loving servant-helper to our husbands; managing our homes and the gifts God entrusts to us with self-control and discipline; training and nurturing of our children with firmness and love; and healthfully walking alongside friends and others who likewise need the guidance of God’s ways to release us from the destructive patterns we’ve no doubt picked up along the way.
With humility, George describes how she not-so-graciously used to deal with her husband and children, until she learned that God himself promises to equip us with his own strength to change.
*STAR*Story: A Woman After God's Own Heart is a book that teaches women skills of becoming a woman after God's own heart.
*STAR*Character/Relationships: This book teaches you how to build relationships with your husband, your children, others, and God.
*STAR* Overall Review: This is such a great book for women at any season in their lives.
This books teaches fundamentals to being a godly woman thriving to put God in every aspect of her live and agenda.
Definitely have a note pad, pen and pink highlighter when you sit down with this book.
Loved it and would definitely read more of Elizabeth George's books.
this was definitely still good, and I can see where some things come from, like singing scriptures to my kids, however it seems hard to be what she claims.
when I read it just a few yrs ago I thought "this is a good book" and gleaned some ideas that I fell away from using.
Now during and after reading I think "this is a life-changing book".
So many good things here, but I would say the view of my husband, the emphasis on prayer and one's relationship with the Lord and the ideas on priorities and time-management are the biggest take aways for me.
I bought this book after l heard a woman preaching about how it had helped her get back on track in her life.
A woman after God’s own heart is a book that every woman should read.
From the beginning to the end Elizabeth George shares disciplines we can follow to become a woman after God’s heart.
This book has changed my life.
the moment I finished reading it, i wanted to pick it up and read it again.It is beautifully written, well structured and easy to understand.
You can continue reading my review here; http://www.womensetapart.com/a-woman-...
It hit me right in the face all the things I could be doing to improve my life and most importantly, my walk with Christ.
Elizabeth George gives such practical and helpful tips on improving things in your life such as being a wife, a mother and a woman after God's own heart!
Even if you are not a wife or mother, just being a woman in general you get very important lessons.
I can't wait to go back to this book as a reference and to read more from Elizabeth George.
This is an incredible book and really should be read by every Christian woman. It will challenge you in every single area of your life - your relationship with God, your spouse, your children and those you are ministering to. I read this book a couple years ago and started re-reading it as soon as I finished it. I've read it several times and still am convicted in certain areas every time I read it. It has become a part of my devotional time. I read the Bible and I read a portion of this book every day.
AMAZING. This book specifically helps women that want to have that close relationship with our Lord. it shows what a Godly woman looks like, a Godly Wife, and a Godly Mother. WOW this book honestly is helping me alot to understand what a Christian Woman is looking like and what I should look forward to if I ever do get married, I know what to do to please God and to please my husband and children :)
Definitely a really good book. Definitely one every woman should read at some point in their walk. Not sure this was totally the right point for me, it's really geared more for married women, who have families and everything...but I still got a lot out of it, and if nothing else, it gives perspective for me on what my future could possible be like, realistically. I'll definitely come back to this book when the time comes.
Amazing book. Totally changed my concept about God's expectations of us women an dhow to prioritize our relationships with God first and with others. I give this book a four because i expected the book to cover more single women everyday life rather than mostly wives and mothers. Overall, i really enjoyed this book and will recommend for wives and mothers.
This was a great book. It was a real eye-opener! There were areas of my life I thought I was doing great in, but she showed ways I can do them even better. If you have a heart to please God in ALL areas of your life then this is a GOOD book! It definitely inspired me and challenged me to make my good better and my better best!
I enjoyed this book tremendously. Oh to have the heart of God. This is the kind of woman who is VERY pleasing in His sight. This book is scripturally based and will help you get on that path. I even purchased the teen counter part to help my daughters. Then, the Lord in His generosity used someone else to bless my three teenage daughters with their own personal copies.
Excellent, in a word.A wise women of God has taken the time to record how to be a woman that honors God. Her passion makes the reader so excited to live creating a life of beauty for the people in her family and circle of influence. Great practical information, biblical. Anyone christian woman benefit for and enjoy reading this book.
Elizabeth George truly has a gift for telling you like it is while also showing you that you aren't alone. In today's crazy, materialistic world, I often find myself forgetting where my heart and mind should be. This book has redirected me to the correct path on more than one occasion. Thanks Elizabeth George!
George is a such a clean, clear, easy-to-read writer. What helped me the most was her system of prioritizing: God, husband, children if you have them, home, self, ministry, and everything and everyone else. A reiteration of the fundamentals, perhaps, but with examples that memorably drove them home.
Had the great opportunity to listen to this author speak! It was absolutely wonderful and inspiring. I love her books! I also had a chance to talk to her and am so thankful for the opportunity. I plan on ready as many of her books as I can because of the fact that they are not only inspiring but helpful.
