https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218677.Callahan_s_Crosstime_Saloon
The book is a collection of nine short stories all taking place in a Long Island bar called Callahan's Saloon.
What makes these stories science fiction is that when I said those who need to the find the place, I meant anybody: normal people around NYC area, time travelers, aliens, etc.
While it sounds like a boring repeat, the problems are all very different and the book is short enough not to feel like a reader is stuck in a loop aka Groundhog Day. Spider Robinson and the main character of the stories Jake are liberals - the way the word was understood in late seventies and some time beyond.
However, story to story becomes repetitive if attempted in one sitting.Where Callahan's stands apart is it's focus on struggling with the problems of existence and meaning, and humanity, and the great focus the bar clientele have on empathizing with each other.
Be warned, Callahan's clientele truly love puns, and they will edge into the most serious of stories.
Xanth ain't got nothing on Callahan's.Mostly stories aren't explicitly sci-fi, being set in an modern anytime New York bar but instead play with sci-fi concepts like time travel, lurking aliens, and humans with extra abilities.
And most likely, bad puns.
4.0 stars. I think the above describes the essence of the book much better than I can, but I will go ahead and ramble for a few paragraphs anyway. However, before I begin PLEASE BE AWARE that this review contains some overt sentimentality and just plain sappiness. If it gets to be too much, you might want to have a salty snack standing by to help take the edge off... ...of course then you might need a   to wash it down, which is actually a nice lead in to a review about a book that takes place
to wash it down, which is actually a nice lead in to a review about a book that takes place entirely in a bar.This is the quintessential “feel good” book and one that literally kept me smiling (and probably looking goofy) while I was reading it.
What this book will do is hopefully make you smile and feel better about the world around you, even if only while you are reading it.
The Callahan Chronicles, of which this is the first book, take place entirely in a bar called…you guessed it…Callahan’s Place.
If you say only one thing about this book, I believe that thing would be "fun".Spider Robinson's collection of bar stories are barely science fiction but as Ben Bova points out in his introduction, does that really matter?
These anecdotes are all about encouaging growth as people and a species and taking an attitude of emapthy towads your fellow man, and they're great fun too.I have no idea why it is a "Crosstime Saloon," I'd assumed it was a bar in some kind of time & space vortex outside the normal boundaries of our world but that doesn't really apply as far as I could tell.
They make toasts by paying double for their drink and throwing the glass into the fireplace, and the toasts are often the opening to a whole new discussion about morality, politics, and empathy.
LOTS of puns.Is this sci-fi?
It does fit more into "weird fiction" than any other sci-fi genre, but if you can have aliens and time-travelers in a story, I say it's good enough to be called sci-fi.This isn't a space opera, or a heroic journey to the stars.
It's a book about people, their problems, and how the understanding and empathy of fellow human beings (even if they're drunk) can fix a lot of things.
This is a good coffee break book--you really wouldn't want to read more than a chapter at a time. Although I can appreciate puns, I guess I'm not as into that as most Spider Robinson fans.
A glorious book of short stories all set in one fictional bar. They are a mix of both supernatural and just plain super stories. And for anyone curious "The Farm" highlighted in the last story "The Wonderful Conspiracy" is still alive and thriving in Summertown TN.
This is a very fun collection of short stories, and they're linked together instead of haphazardly thrown in. I want to go to this bar!The setting is very well developed. You know what this bar is like: brightly lit, no barstools, Tuesday night is for VERY bad puns, etc.Even with the weird stuff happening, like time travelers, aliens, and psychics, the stories don't just rely on gimmicks, but the characters are well developed.
I absolutely love this book and this author and of course, this place.
What I really love is the people in the stories, the feelings.
At Callahan's there is no judgement, no recriminations, just people who genuinely care for one another, care about the problems everyone faces, the pain they have to go through, and the process of recovery.
My two favorite stories from this book are The Time-Traveler and The Law of Conservation of Pain.
I cried through every story, Spider Robinson has the ability to make you feel everything the characters are going through and I thank him for that.
If anyone ever suggests that SF has nothing to say about the human condition, you could do a lot worse than point them towards Spider Robinson.Callaghan's Crosstime Saloon (1977) - the first of many collections of stories he's produced about a very special Long Island Bar - is by some lights barely in the genre at all.
Glibness is largely avoided.Callaghan's Crosstime Saloon might defy categorisation under Asimov's three types of SF - gadget SF, adventure SF and social SF - but it's undeniably part of the genre.
While I am a total nerd girl, I rarely get into science fiction novels.
Originally, this was a collection of short stories published in Analog Science Fiction and Fact.
What it became was an introduction to one of my all-time favorite guilty pleasure series.
The premise is that anything is possible at this particular bar because every regular there is completely empathic and open to weirdness.
Time travel?
That's how real and familiar I have become with this particular book.
Opening the pages is slipping into a seat and knowing I don't even need to place my order; it's already being poured.
Written in 1999 it says here-but these are short stories for a magazine so probably written over a number of years. Some are a bit dated and many have a mix of feminism and progressive views, other with a few homophobic or misogynist comments. Overall a theme if sharing difficult feelings and situations in a (mostly) judgement free bar. With aliens and time travels.
A nice collection of short stories with a scifi twist, but the twist might not be quite what you expect it to be.An easy read that will take you some place, make you think and set your giggles off. I recommend it. Once you start on Spider Robinson, you'll be hooked.Oh, one disclaimer:If you don't like puns, avoid Spider Robinson's books like the plague!
There's also a very...masculine feel, that makes me feel very much like these stories are not for me, just as Callahan's bar itself is apparently entirely uncongenial to my gender.
Or to allow that perhaps women are also in need of the miraculous redemptive services that Callahan's offers, which are apparently enough to save the world.
One of the last stories also reveals something of the nature of Callahan himself that I think undercuts quite a lot of Robinson's own argument.So. They're very much a product of their time.
They were probably pretty thoughtful and touchy-feely for the time.
Callahann's Crosstime Saloon grabbed hold as soon as I found out that a common practice was breaking glasses in the fireplace after a toast, that is something that appeals to me on a spiritual level.Callahann's Crosstime Saloon is a collection of short science fiction stories that follow a weird bar, its weird patrons, and the weird events that happened there.
Robinson's prose is delightful, his characters are incredibly likable (well and also kind of not, but I think that lends to their charm,) and his wit is on par with Douglas Adams.
A delightful diversion that I would recommend if you need a strange bar where everybody knows you name.
The short stories from the Callahan's series are all set at an eponymous Irish bar.
Some of the stories deal with rather down-to-earth themes, for example a former minister who "travelled through time" by means of imprisonement by a Latin American dictator.
Other stories involve real time travel or even space aliens who are so touched by the friendliness of the people at Callahan's that they abandon their plans to eradicate mankind.
Tone and atmosphere of these stories are rather unique and the themes often deal with quite important philosophical questions.
I feel it's one of those "you get as much as you put in" type stories.
That on the one hand.On the other hand, this book is acclaimed for being hilarious and wonderful and I really didn't feel much of either.
Yeah, the puns were pretty punny in a few cases, and the stories (since this is really a bunch of short stories strung together about the Saloon) were pretty interesting, but I didn't feel that there was much else to it.So why do I rate this book 4 stars, if at all?
Well, the last two stories really moved me.
Spider Robinson is the king of the pun; The Callahan Series is his crowning achievement. Each chapter is a quick read so you can keep this near the porcelain throne or run through the book in a day or two reading in bed before your significant other jesters to you to turn off the light.I regally loved this book and suggest you pick it up some knight soon.
this wasn't what I expected at all, but it was fine for what it was. A little too happy-In my experience, bars and drunks aren't really like that...lol
Sadly, on this reading, many of the flaws stood out to me.The stories have not aged too badly, but there is a post-hippie, middle-class smugness that settles upon the whole.
However, most of these people are middle-aged Irish-American men, which gives the message of pan-humanism a kick in the dick.I still love this book, and always will, but can no longer recommend it without reservation.
If you can come to these stories looking for a good time with a cheerful tolerance for it's flawws, you'll love it, but I can now understand how alienating this book may be.
This was a good book to use in "cleansing my mind" after having read something I really didn't enjoy at all.
It put me back in a good mood.Spider's stories are always more about the people, and his character development in such a short space is always exemplary.
His people feel things, and Callahan's is the place to go when you need to feel better.
And the people in the bar are always there to lend a sympathetic ear and try to help people to heal.I sure do wish I could find the real Callahan's.
I remember reading these, but not well enough to rate them. Likely not worth rereading, and my copy is long gone, anyway. Date read is a guess.
A claasic in a venerable genre. A weird successor to "Tales from the White Hart."
At first I didn't think I was going to like it but as I continued drinking at Callahan's Saloon I just enjoyed it more and more. On to book 2
Суховато. Хуморът, който очаквах, не го намерих. Ако отида в селската кръчма у дома, ще чуя сто пъти по-весели работи.
This collection of short stories is a breezy read, infused with Robinson's empathy for all creatures and love of groan-inducing wordplay.
And if you choose the latter option, you get to talk, and everyone has to stop what they're doing and listen to you.The men who frequent Callahan's Place are good at listening and they hear a lot of stories --- some seeking advice, some empathy and some absolution.
Telekinetic brothers, time travelers and strange aliens are among the patrons of the bar.
If I had to hazard a guess, I doubt that the 5.372 10^10 people actually expect there to be a place where there are time travelers, aliens and telekinetic brothers.
Unsurprisingly, then, my favorite story was "The Time-Traveler," which has so little science fiction that, according to Ben Bova's introduction, it drew letters of protest from Analog's subscribers when it originally saw print.
(view spoiler)[There's a black woman--she's a tragic figure who serves as the social conscience of her era until the protagonist of that story travels in time to rescue her, not from her life as a child prostitute, but from the police raid that ends that "career." There's another woman--she's driven to despair by her frustrated need to have biological offspring.
There's a black guy--he dies first, providing a spiritual awakening to the white protagonist of that story.
For one thing, the book is filled to the brim with groan-worthy puns.
And before the book is over, you just wish Callahan's was a real place so you could join the crowd, groan when the Doc belts out a wince-inducing pun, and toss your glass into the fireplace.Nevermind the antiquated social mores, or the way that anyone of substance--besides the aliens, I guess--is male, heterosexual, and white.
(There's one woman, but she's essentially defined by being gorgeous and by her motherly instincts.) There's a real heart in this book, underneath the dated SF ideas and the psychodrama.
And there's real fun, too.
Zábavná sbírka krátkých povídek, spojených prostředím Callahanova baru, místa kde je každý ztroskotanec vítaným hostem. Bez ohledu na rasu, pohlaví či planetu odkud pochází se mu dostane pochopení a pomoci - to všechno s notnou dávkou humoru.Čtení mě bavilo, ale musím říct že cca od poloviny knížky už se mi zdálo že se autor trošku začíná opakovat, navíc mi začaly unikat pointy vtipů ... možná se něco ztratilo v překladu.
