https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76947.The_Hidden_Harbor_Mystery
The boys brave a hurricane, an alligator and a swamp monster to solve the mystery of Hidden Harbor and resolve the differences!
My kid and I loved this Hardys adventure because it had a great storyline (aside from the implausible plot device where a hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico could get to Georgia (crossing the Florida panhandle and moving north - no way this could happen.
But, hey, it was exciting nonetheless) and full of hijinks including some humor from Chet and of course clever sleuthing from the Boys.
I read the Hardy Boys books (and Nancy Drew) when I was a child. The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
1935 version: ★★★★✰ (The inclusion of this on my "dead dog warning" shelf applies to this version only.)1961 version: ★★★✰✰ It deserves two stars, but I want to give it four (explained below) so I'm splitting the difference at three.Review for the revision, 8/19/18:Before I start, let's enjoy this paraphrased Hardly Boys South Park parody. "Dude, this mystery sounds super hard.""Oh... oooohhh... dude, I think I'm getting a clue.""You are?""Yeah, I'm definitely getting a raging clue.""Oh... that'
1935 version: ★★★★✰ (The inclusion of this on my "dead dog warning" shelf applies to this version only.)1961 version: ★★★✰✰ It deserves two stars, but I want to give it four (explained below) so I'm splitting the difference at three.Review for the revision, 8/19/18:Before I start, let's enjoy this paraphrased Hardly Boys South Park parody.
Hardy boys are all like "I don't think we'll take this case, but we'll let you know." Business dude departs a little disappointed.
When I was about 10 or 11, my mother signed me up for a book of the month club. Every month, I received two Nancy Drew or two Hardy Boys books. Every month, they were both read in a week and I was asking when the next book would be there!I thank my mother for recognizing and encouraging my love of reading.
Read many books of this series as a kid. Good stuff.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books.
The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.
Frank Hardy is the elder of the two and has dark hair.
Joe Hardy is the younger brother, and has blond hair and blue eyes.
The stories are an unaging series, in which Frank and Joe are always 18 and 17 years of age, respectively.
In the original series the brothers were a younger 16 and 15 years of age, but their ages were increased during the revision process that began in 1959.
I rate this book five out of five stars because it is an overall awesome story.
The Hidden Harbor Mystery is the 14th book in the Hardy Boy series and I have never been disappointed yet.
If you are not familiar with the hardy Boys, it is about a pair of brother who go out and solve fun, awesome mysteries that always end wanting you to read the next book.
This story is more of an easy read to pass time.
It is not that long with only 177 pages, but is very enjoyable and I highly recommend that you try it out.
It is pouring down rain, and I am in the mood for a light read."This is going to be a terrible night on the open sea," said Joe Hardy."I wish the captain would speed up," responded Chet Morton, with anxiety. "The ocean is getting rough, and the sooner we reach Bayport the better it will suit me.""Just the kind of setting for a mystery," returned Frank Hardy."A shipwreck, stolen money, a feud between two families, and a black gang. The action in this book is non-stop. Copyright: 1935
What a nostalgic read. Bought a beat-up 1935 copy in a 5 for $1 sale. I whipped through it in an hour or so - classic Frank and Joe and Chet. (Love Chet.) I would have rated this 4 or 5 but the depiction of Luke and his friends is so disturbing to a modern reader...
In kidspeak, this is a great mystery. There is action happening throughout the story. It is realistic and enjoyable.
Dixon, Franklin W.
I always preferred the Hardy Boys to Nancy Drew. I can still recall the day I read an entire book in one day.
A very good-quality mystery book!
Re-reading it as an adult. I think I enjoyed it more when I was younger, in school. There were some repetitive annoying descriptions wheich were not annoying when I read it back then. Good easy read to fill your past time.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
While trying to help settle a feud between two brothers who own land directly beside each other, Frank and Joe get caught up in dangers like never before when they learn people are attempting to find treasure - no matter the cost! Dixon will have fans cheering the whole way in this entry!
My grandson, Ryan, has the first 16 or so of the Hardy Boys books and wanted me to read one. I had never read any when I was growing up. I can see why he loves them so much; it was a very good read with adventure, close calls, smarmy characters, and lots of descriptive scene settings.
Another excellent mystery-solving, criminal-thwarting adventure with Frank and Joe.
Great addition to the series.
Hidden treasure in the hidden harbor! The waterfront books are always a little more fun to me. This was a fun little mystery thriller.
REALLY NALE BITING BOOK! SPED THROUGH IT!
A fairly standard Hardy Boys adventure. More action than mystery, but you will be relieved to know that Frank and Joe triumphed in the end.
I recently read the hardy boys: The Hidden Harbor Mystery by Franklin W. Dixon. If you enjoy mystery books I would recommend it. The book is a little bit confusing in the beginning, and the the end. It also is some what slow in the first half. Other than that, this book is really good. There is a lot of action, and suspense. The ending was very good too, but I wouldn't want to give it away because this is a book in which you would want to read.
We join Frank and Joe Hardy Again for the 14th time and they have once again uncovered another mystery. this time they were contacted by a detective in Maine where there was a man trying to run down his newspaper company, and it is up to the Hardys to prove this man as an illegal convict and find his illegal papers and treasure in the hidden harbour.
this was a good book. i like to read mystery and i find these interesting. i dont know why all these people who read this like that Nancy drew person. i personally do not palan onm reading her books. i liked this book alot though.
I read both the Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys growing up. This one stuck in my memory. I grew up with these books and they contributed to my love of the story--especially mystery. I suspect they also contributed to my desire to write. I recommend the series as a whole for young readers.
In which the only black people are 'Negro servants', 17-year-olds can buy dynamite and bad guys are so sure they've won that they divulge all their past, current and future dastardly plans before the end.
loved it!!!
The Hardy boys are hired to settle a dispute between family.
Just great easy to read stories in the Hardy Boy mysteries. I read these years ago but they made me a reader!!!!
