https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1063146.With_God_in_Russia
This is Walter Ciszek's first book about his experience as a priest living in captivity in the Soviet Union. Whereas "He Leadeth Me" deals with the spiritual side of his experience, "With God in Russia" is more of a factual account of what happened, albeit one that is told in a dramatic, suspenseful style that makes it almost read like an adventure novel. A great read and very inspiring. Be sure to read "He Leadeth Me" to get the FULL story of this heroic Jesuit's life.
A hard-nosed Jesuit priest slipped behind soviet lines during WWII and got trapped there for 23 years.
Through tortuous interrogations, 15 years of hard labor in Siberian labor camps, and plenty of laugh-or-else-you'd-cry hijinx, Walter Ciszek was convinced that he was made for this struggle.
And yet, he was convinced that he needn't worry because God had his back.
And seeing how he survived the camps and was returned home in a Cold War spy swap, you have to think that he might have had the cosmos figured out.I remember an argument I got into in a class on Philosophy of Law -- is Communism just an economic system or is it a violation of human liberty/dignity/whatever?
His faith was often his only sustenance through years of torment, and his relationship with God allowed him to endure even the worst treatment because, as he said, he knew he was never alone, and that God was watching over him.
This gave him the ability to help those who were suffering even more than he was, and to minister to people who had even less than he -- people with no spiritual life, no means to access baptism, or the Bible, or faith.An inspiring, challenging story that puts our own ordinary, wealthy, Western-world troubles in perspective.
I have now read both "He Leadeth Me" and this book.
Unintentionally, I read them backwards, but I enjoyed both immensely.
My initial thoughts were "why did he write two separate books?
He could of just combined both books into one." But after reading them both, I realized why he had written two books.
The reliving of the actual story to share his experience with the rest of us must have been challenging in of itself.
His story is very captivating and thought provoking.
I could feel his thoughts, worries and fears right along with him as he shared the hardest years of his life with us.
Knihu jsem si víceméně náhodně vybral na Audiotéce, protože téma znělo zajímavě. Nebyl jsem zklamán, příběh mě zcela pohltil. Jedná se o příběh jezuity z USA, který se rozhodnul sloužit v období kolem druhé světové války věřícím v Rusku. Jeho přání se splnilo a za své dobré skutky byl po zásluze odměněn patnáctiletým pobytem v pracovním táboře na Sibiři. Podmínky tam zcela dle očekávání naprosto šílené. Ani tam se nenechal zlomit a dál sloužil mše, dál křtil a oddával. Odhodlání a víra opravdu inspirující. Velmi zajímavý a skoro neuvěřitelný příběh.
Incredible memoir of incredible man. Good overview of Soviet Union, gulags, Siberia... it's amazing what people can endure. Would have liked more spiritual account here, but that's in his other book.
It reminds me of the memoir by Ginzburg a bit (Journey into the Whirlwind) which basically also had to do with the Russian prisons, interrogations and work camps in Siberia and Ginzburg also was a political prisoner, but obviously this author has a rather different perspective as an American and a priest.
I wondered if it's due to the fact that Ciszek was an American citizen and they were concerned that if he ever went back he'd tell stories about torture, etc.)I was so happy to read about the first time Fr. Ciszek was able to celebrate Mass after 5 years.
This is Father Ciszek's first book, the one which gives the factual account of his early life, decision to become a priest, seminary years, journey to Poland and behind the Iron Curtain where he lived and was eventually held captive for many years, presumed dead by his family and all who knew him in the US.
It's a fascinating account, both humorous and inspiring in turns and yet Fr. Ciszek only wrote it because he was asked to.
Later he went on to write He Leadeth Me which tells the spiritual aspect of his journey inside the Soviet Union and how God used him to do His Will.
Fr. Ciszek’s account of his years in Soviet solitary confinement, Siberian prison camps, and finally serving as parish priest while under constant KGB surveillance is all the more harrowing and inspirational for the frank, humble, matter-of-fact manner in which it’s told.
Ciszek's time in Eastern Europe and Russia is so well captured in this book.
As you're reading through the years, you can really feel what Ciszek was feeling.
Yes, Ciszek talks about how he remained a priest through all of those years in Russia, but it isn't a sickening amount of "religious propaganda".
Being a priest is a part of his life, and without it, this biography would make absolutely no sense.
Overall, I can say that I thoroughly enjoyed this book, though, perhaps, I would have liked to know what Ciszek's life was like upon returning to America?

I read this book on the recommendation of a colleague because I had a group of students who specifically requested a book about Catholicism, but not a book that was instructional or expositional on the theory of Catholic beliefs.
These students were looking for a traditional novel structure: plot, character development, themes centered around their Catholic beliefs, etc.
This book is definitely structured as such, but the history and the plot sort of overwhelms the theology and doesn't do enough to explore Ciszek's beliefs and actions.
Overall, I enjoyed it and it's been a good book for small group discussion.
I finished this book in the nick of time for a Catholic book club with one of our parish priests who admires Fr. Ciszek.
I enjoyed the book, and was amazed by how easily and openly he spoke of extreme hardships.
I expect the fruit of reading this book will be revealed when I read his later books; understanding someone's life experience often helps understand the...I don't want to say angle, but choice of words and which lessons to try and pass on.
That said, this book on its own is quite good.
I am glad I read it and have an appreciation for the level of trust in the providence of God Fr. Ciszek always displayed.
WE enjoyed this.
(It was a "car read.") Ciszek was a Jesuit priest who chose to go to Eastern Europe to work with Eastern rite Catholics toward the end of WWII, only to be arrested as a "spy" for the Vatican.
He spent 23 years in work camps and prisons before bing released.
And the it was a number of more years before after that before he was able to leave Russia, primarily because of the work of his sisters.
He gets discouraged many times but never does he lose is faith or his ability to befriend and support other people in the same situations.
Absolutely amazing book. Edge of your seat suspense coupled with inspirational faith in God in a true life story that follows a priest who devoted his life to spread the faith to the atheistic Soviet Union. His survival in the Gulag against brutal cold, little food, thuggish gangs, sadistic guards not to mention the ever dangerous work in the mines makes for compelling reading. Might be the finest book I've read this year.
This book is not for the faint of heart. It describes the lengths human beings go to hurt and attempt to destroy each other. The good news is for many of these captives, the horrific trial was honorable and heroic and shows how our faith keeps us focused on our eternal life and not this temporary exile. An added plus is Jim Martin's afterward.
Amazing biographyThis was a wonderful read. Inspiring moments. I couldn't put it down. Amazing in that he was able to withstand and live all those years in prison, gulag hard labor in Siberian winters, and throughout his ordeal he never lost his faith in God.
Thought-provoking and well-written, Fr. Ciszek went through hell in the Russian work prisons and amazingly not only lived to tell the tale, but made it back to the United States. A dark chapter in human history to say the least...
Many times spiritual writers skip the first steps of the spiritual life. This has it all. If you are dealing with pride, this is an excellent beginning.
Very good, emotional book. A fairly quick read, but certainly leaves an impact.
The spectacular account of Fr. Ciszek’s life under the brutal Communist regime in the USSR. A must read for the historically inclined.
Fascinating and readable.
What is really amazing to me is how Fr. Ciszek clung onto his faith during many years of isolation with no hope of ever escaping from the Soviet system. This is truly inspirational.
Outstanding. Reading Father Ciszek's story makes all the trials and troubles of one's life seem trivial.
Amazing story. Fr. Walter is a Servant of God.
You cannot forget this manI have read this book three times. I can't get enough of this amazing and deeply spiritual tale. Please tell everyone how incredible Father Criseks story is.
I loved it. Had a difficult time putting it down.
This is the story of Walter Ciszek, an American, Eastern rite Catholic priest called to assist the persecuted faithful in the Soviet Union.
In order to enter the Soviet Union, Father Ciszek volunteered to work in a logging camp.
Ciszek avoids descriptives when he details his abuse at the hands of the Soviet authorities in Lubianka and later, at the hands of both guards and some fellow prisoners in the camps.
That, restraint, as well as Father Ciszek's demonstrated love for the Russian people despite all, contributes to this powerful narrative.I enthusiastically recommend this book.
This autobiography details the life of Fr. Walter Ciscek, an American Jesuit priest who went to minister in Russia in 1941 and was soon arrested by the communist government and imprisoned in Lubyanka, the famous Gulag prison that many people did not survive.
Father was imprisoned there and subjected to near-starvation, torture and forced-labor for nearly 25 years.
During the entire time of his imprisonment he carried on a clandestine ministry among his fellow prisoners.
Read this book!!!!
I just realized that the book I read wasn't this one, it was "He Leadeth Me".
I realized that when I was reading other reviews.
This landed him in different jails in Moscow for 8 years before they finally sentenced him to 15 years hard labor in Siberia.
The story tells of his extraordinary faith in God and commitment to his priestly vows.
In Siberia he was committed to hard labor such as shoveling coal for 12 hours a day or dynamiting coal veins deep in the earth.
After his sentence was completed his travel was limited to several cities in Russia were he was warned about celebrating the mass and was kicked out of several cities because of a huge following of people that were starving for God. This is a good read.
