https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65118.The_Hostile_Hospital
AND PEOPLE WONDER WHY I READ DARK BOOKS NOW AS AN ADULT.Also I have questions about why this hospital was so filthy and if anyone actually took care of the other patients???And the subplot of "cheerfulness will get you better than modern medicine!" is incredibly ironic considering Lemony Snicket is the most depressed chronicler ever.
THE IRONIES HERE WOW.And I think Mr. Snicket has the best bio for this one in all the books.Lemony Snicket is widely regarded as one of the most difficult children's authors to capture and imprison.
The Hostile Hospital (book 8 of 13) is the first volume (I believe) to introduce the idea that the children themselves have to do things to survive that, while understandable, are not 'noble' when viewed in isolation.
This begins in earnest the theme of noble vs villainous people that dominates to the end of the series.
It demonstrates an increasing sophistication in the novels, perhaps born of the idea that the audience were growing older over the years that the books were published.In previous books we've often had a guardian who whilst well intentioned (though often deeply stupid) lacks the moral fibre to act when doing the right thing requires some bravery.
Clearly, nine-year-old me (who wasn't allowed to read Harry Potter past a certain point in the evening because if I did I'd get nightmares) was NOT equipped to handle this book, wherein a fourteen year old girl is drugged for the sake of surgical decapitation.THEY TRY TO CHOP VIOLET BAUDELAIRE'S HEAD OFF.Who can blame me for being slightly damaged?
That sh*t is scarring - and not just for Violet.
Maybe.Bottom line: This book is dopedopedopedope.
I liked it but I feel like the main reason I'm reading this is to catch up with my reading challenge. I also want to find out about V.F.D and all the other mysteries.
Every book has the same exact formulaic plot.2.
The person who recommended I read these is no longer in my life*.4.
After reading 7.5 out of 13 books, I still know next to nothing about the overarching mystery.5.
I already feel like I've wasted enough time on this series, and with a TBR pile (both physical and online) that is growing at an exponential rate, I'd rather focus what precious little reading time I have on books I'm actually interested in.*This makes it sound like the person died or something- rest assured, they are still very much alive, they just became a raging asshole.
We sing to boys with broken bones And girls whose throats are sore.{CHORUS}We sing to men with measles,And to women with the flu,And if you breathe in deadly germs,We’ll probably sing to you {CHORUS}*screaming*If Netflix DOES renew this series for S2 and it has this book in there, they had BETTER come up with a tune as obnoxious as that EASY STREET song on Walking Dead (it's by the Collapsable Hearts Club so go look it up but it's catchy at the same time!
haha) and end up doing this where you get two different types of people....those who'll learn it/sing along for the heck of it....then you have those who would ABSOLUTELY HATE IT.....So I'm giving this 2 1/2 stars and still cringed reading this and seriously couldn't get into it and was still repetitive like non other for me.
4.3/5 “Tra la la, Fiddle dee dee,Hope you get well soon.Ho ho ho, hee hee hee,Have a heart-shaped balloon.” This was my last book read in 2017. Great book to end the year, to be honest. The last couple of the series weren’t too exciting nor with an interesting story, but in this one there’s once again the main spirit of this series.After the escaping from the Village the kids end up in a Hospital, but it’s no common hospital there.Count Olaf’s disguise in here was pretty cool. We don’t get a “re
The last couple of the series weren’t too exciting nor with an interesting story, but in this one there’s once again the main spirit of this series.After the escaping from the Village the kids end up in a Hospital, but it’s no common hospital there.Count Olaf’s disguise in here was pretty cool.
There’s more adventure in here, especially during the last half and it reminded me of how much I liked the first books the series.I loved the last part, it’s actually pretty creepy knowing the circumstances… The mystery is still there, nothing new is added nor discovered, the final decision of the orphans though was very brave, even if necessary.
Okay I changed my mind, THAT one was my favorite so far. I really REALLY like that Sunny is beginning to use more words. The mystery of VFD and Beatrice is still killing me. On to the 9th!! :)
3.75* Once again, this was a fun addition to the series, although I did feel it felt a little like a 'filler' book! Not the most memorable of the series so far but it still had me turning the pages, feeling intrigued as to what is going on! I would just like a little more development as there's a lot of teasing going on, which has been intrigued but I'd be glad for some kind of revelation at some point soon... :')
4 STARS!This was full of action! I felt like there wasn't a moment to breathe and I loved that about it. It was fast paced and fun and mysterious and that ending? These kids are brave as hell.Why did Esme wink at them?Who survived the fire?What does Olaf really have to do with any of this?I'm excited for The Carnivorous Carnival! Now on to book 9!! :D- Richard or Drahcir or Ardichar
The Baudelaire's start taking matters into their own hands...I enjoyed the climax scene in this book because it is the biggest close-call yet!
Klaus is amazing, and is amazing in the climax scene.Favorite quote from this book:"There are many things in this world I do not know.
I do not know how butterflies get out of their cocoons without damaging their wings.
I do not know why anyone would boil vegetables when roasting them is tastier.
Every time I pick up one of these books, they never fail to make me laugh. They're just so hilariously unbelievable and I love every minute of it! I think this is one of the ones where it strikes me the most though. It's really crazy the things that these poor orphans go through and really unbelievable that they've actually made it this far! I really love this book in particular because it shows that even good people do not so good things sometimes to escape bad situations and that's just part of life!
Para Beatrice: el verano sin ti es frío como el invierno, el invierno sin ti es aún más frío.Este me ha gustado muchísimo, de verdad. La saga sólo va a mejor. Y como no se descubra pronto lo que significa VFD me va a dar una crisis nerviosa. Digo.
I re-read the first six books last year. I thought I was up to to this one so I'll have to go back and read book 7 again next, but I loved this. It was always one of my favourites in the series!
۴.۵بینظیر بود!
اول از همه باید بگم که بسیار خوشحالم که کتاب رو در کودکی و حتی نوجوانی نخوندهم.
چون ارجاعاتی در کتاب هست که در اون زمان عملا ازش سر در نمیاوردم و ارزششون رو از دست میدادن؛ اما منکر این هم نمیشم که حالا هم اونقدری پُر نیستم که همه رو بفهمم.
از اسم آقای پو که بچههاش ادگار و الن بودند و تا اینکه آقای پو مدام سرفه میکنه(ادگار الن پو سل داشت)؛ اما اینکه سه تا از بیمارها، کلاریسا دالووی (که معلوم نیست بیماریش چیه و فقط غمگین از پنجره بیرون رو نگاه میکنه
اول از همه باید بگم که بسیار خوشحالم که کتاب رو در کودکی و حتی نوجوانی نخونده‌م.
چون ارجاعاتی در کتاب هست که در اون زمان عملا ازش سر در نمیاوردم و ارزششون رو از دست می‌دادن؛ اما منکر این هم نمی‌شم که حالا هم اون‌قدری پُر نیستم که همه رو بفهمم.
از اسم آقای پو که بچه‌هاش ادگار و الن بودند و تا این‌که آقای پو مدام سرفه می‌کنه(ادگار الن پو سل داشت)؛ اما این‌که سه تا از بیمارها، کلاریسا دالووی (که معلوم نیست بیماریش چیه و فقط غمگین از پنجره بیرون رو نگاه می‌کنه) تا جوناس ماتیاس(که بیماریش دریازدگی‌ه و جوناس در انگلیسی همان یونس ‌پیامبریه که صاحب اسمش در شکم نهنگ گیر افتاد) و چارلی اندرسون (آخ که ان‌قدر کمم که ارجاعشو نمی‌فهمم) باشند، ان‌قدری برام هیجان‌انگیز و پرشکوهه که حد نداره.
Leaving this series for right now with this book.
What I have realized is that this series can actually be a bit depressing.
Unlike almost every other children literature out there,this book promises a sad ending and being true to his words,Lemony Snicker actually brings unhappy endings in every single book.It's true that the world is a sad place and there's just too much cruelty everywhere.
But Snicket's world has extraordinary amount of cruelty and misjudgment, enhanced by million times under a microscope.
The children are on the verge of being killed so many times.
Yeesh! That was disturbing.And cue the PTSD! If these poor children weren't irrevocably traumatized for life already they certainly are now!
Within its pages are such burdensome details as misleading newspaper headlines, unnecessary surgery, an intercom system, anesthesia, heart-shaped balloons, and some very startling news about such things."A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS number eight takes place mostly in a half-finished hospital in which the now-guardianless Baudelaire orphans find themselves after fleeing police.
Violet, Klaus, and Sunny pose as part of the organization, and they end up getting the job of working in the Library of Records as assistants to a man with very poor eyesight, as decreed by Babs, the director of Heimlich Hospital who is never seen but always heard via intercom.

It’s so good.
It was interesting to see how the two youngest Baudelaires fended for themselves without big sister Violet to help them.
This book also marks the start of Olaf slowly but surely losing his theatre troupe members until he (eventually) ends up completely and utterly alone as he deserves.
The Baudelaire children are so brave.
That epic ending.
It's awfully sad that they're comparing themselves to Count Olaf but this really showcases the grey area between good and evil.
As the series goes on we'll see more of a morality complex in this morally grey world.
aaaaand this is where everything really starts to go downhill. I don't think I recognized just how creepy/horrifying this was when I was younger, but now, it has an added dose of anxiety and horror to make the experience even better. But the best part of this by far is the moral strength, the love and loyalty, the cleverness and heart that's in it. (Don't even talk to me about the conspiracies it's bringing up and the plot secrets I need to unravel.)Basically this is my favorite series of all time and you cannot sway me from that opinion.
Ένα ακόμη πολύ ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο της σειράς, αν και αρκετά πιο σκοτεινό σε σχέση με τα προηγούμενα, με την απόγνωση να ξεχειλίζει από παντού. Έχει επίσης και ενδιαφέροντα hints για τους γονείς των παιδιών και την Ε.Α.Π.
getting a little irratated
3.5, as always.
Book #1 of a 24h marathon on the 26th of April 2015Very Lemony Snicket-y as usual.There's not much to say about these series for now...I am expecting something huge to come out of the last few books, and my hunger for the truth about Beatrice and the Snicket family and the fire is increasing every volume I read.I look forward to picking up the rest of the series.
Considering the fact that these stories originated in the dark and questionable recesses of Lemony Snicket's imagination, I don't know why I'm still surprised by the events of each book, but I am.
I'm surprised that adults, who are supposed to be at least somewhat sensible, would believe that three children - one of whom is a baby - are murderers, but if it's strange, dire, and extremely unpleasant, Snicket puts his characters through it.
And as the series nears The End (if you'll pardon the pun), I'm growing increasingly nervous as to what could possibly happen to the Baudelaires next.

Reread.
GENTE, essa série tem ficado mais sinistra do que eu esperava, mas adorando <3 E o audiobook é DEMAIS! O narrador é maravilhoso, vários efeitos de áudio que dão um tcham pra história :)))
~~3.5 stars~~
