https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/719399.The_Floating_Admiral
3.5★The Detection Club must have been the coolest club around. A group of highly successful mystery writers getting together sharing their love of mysteries & detective fiction over regular dinners in London.The idea of a group of the members each writing a chapter to a murder mystery was intriguing - & with writers as skilled as Agatha Christie & Dorothy L. Sayers involved - what could go wrong?Unfortunately quite a bit. After G.K. Chesterton's introduction (which I have already for
A group of highly successful mystery writers getting together sharing their love of mysteries & detective fiction over regular dinners in London.The idea of a group of the members each writing a chapter to a murder mystery was intriguing - & with writers as skilled as Agatha Christie & Dorothy L.
Sayers did her best to get the story on track, but unfortunately the writer that followed her, Ronald A.
Able writing by the rest of the writers (including a wonderful twist from Clemence Dane) couldn't save this book for me after that.
& Knox gave another dull list before offering his solution.
And I still have the original notebooks that contained the dragon story (it got so long that we ran out of space in the six-subject one we started with, and had to buy a new one for the last few chapters).I thought that this was something that was unique to my own clique of silly high school friends, so imagine my delight when I was browsing through a secondhand bookstore and found The Drowned Admiral, which is the grown-up legitimate version of The Notebook Game.This is a real thing: in the '30's, there was a club of detective novel writers that included Dorothy Sayers, Agatha Christie, and GK Chesterton.
What a brilliant idea. Ten different Eleven authors including Agatha Christie, all members of the detection club come together to write a prologue and one chapter each of the plot. The story line flows seamlessly from the writings of one author to the other. Several of them including Christie provide their own solution to the murder. Must read for the sheer brilliance of the idea.
As Dorothy L Sayers explains in the introduction, the idea was that each writer tackled the mystery presented in the preceding chapters without knowing what solution the previous authors had in mind.
GK Chesterton's prologue was then written last, in order to tie the beginning of the novel to its ending.It's an ingenious idea and it's easy to imagine what fun (and what problems) the various writers must have had devising their own installment.
To me, the most interesting parts of the book are Sayers' introduction and the different solutions envisaged by the authors, which are included in the volume after the final chapter.
I thought The Detection Club was the best thing ever when I first heard of it--a club of Golden Age mystery authors that included Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers?
but I had never heard of The Floating Admiral, which was a simply terrific idea: a detective novel written round-robin style by the entire Club, each member in turn being required to provide the next chapter of the story along with a sealed solution explaining the solution to the whole mystery.
A lot of books written in that time were, in a way, puzzles - with clues you could (supposedly) work out, and a great sense of fun.
Also, it is a chance not only to sample well known authors such as Agatha Christie and Dorothy L Sayers, but to sample the work of writers who perhaps are not so well read these days and who deserve to be.The author's, in order are: C.K. Chesterton, Canon Victor L.
It is a very enjoyable read and, you sense, great fun to write!
This was a super fun read, not really so much for the sake of the story itself (which was good though not excellent), but because of how much I love the idea of a serially-written story collaborated on by good friends (some of whom happen to be among my best-loved fiction authors).
Chesterton, Sayers, and Christie were definitely the most skilled among the bunch and not all the other contributions felt quite up to snuff -- which made the story feel a little disjointed -- but it was still a really enjoyable read.
If only I was a brilliant British detective novelist with a host of similar friends.
The idea to write with several writers a story, each following the former one is great. I enjoyed also recoginizing the specifics, especially of the well known authors.Sadly, in the great idea, there is also weakness. The different parts are very uneven and some are not so good at all. And on a certain level, there is no feeling os a story, but one of lots of small elements.
Eh. I wanted to like this more than I did.
The inspiration is fantastic: a bunch of amazing mystery writers, harangued by real detectives who say it's easy for their fictional counterparts to make connections since everything is laid out for them, decide to present each other with a real mystery.
Round robin style, they create a murder, with strict rules for each other.
The star power: Agatha Christie!
G.K. Chesterton!
Dorothy L.
Sayers!
I basically liked the introduction to the volume and the writers' attempts at solutions compiled at the end better than the actual book.
It is horribly lacking in Aristotelian unity.I almost didn't read this novel at all, although my curiosity about Sayers' contribution (which I think is the best chapter, although who knows what I'd think if I hadn't know which one she wrote) finally drove me to it.
I began reading The Floating Admiral while reading lunch and had to stop in the second paragraph of Chesterton's prologue, because it was ruining my appetite.Someday I'm going to write more about G.K. Chesterton, but let me just say for now that racism was part of his metaphysics.
An ingenious idea for a story with some chapters more unusual than others depending on the authors.
I do wonder if any of the authors deliberately created impossible situations to challenge their peers.The character development was interesting, for example Inspector Rudge was forward thinking and intelligent in some chapters but in others, he was portrayed as a dumb policeman who could not see the wood for the trees.
I actully learned quite a bit about boats from this story which is a sign of a quality book when it interests you enough to do external research.
It is interesting to see how the greatest mystery writers of the 20th century relaxed. It is also very interesting to see each of the different styles and how well they knew each other. If your a fan it is worth it. If you have not read their books it is a good mystery but you lose out on some of the fun.
The result is that the final chapter is more like a novella, very long, and final plot is very complicated.It does help that the narrator, David Timson, is so good and provides a sense of continuity with his voice, as well as distinguishing cleverly between characters.
You are told at the beginning of each chapter who has been responsible for this chapter.I have talked to fellow readers about this concept, particularly in relation to teams of writers responsible for novels.
Just recently we came across an Australian novel written by 5 authors, and two writers in a team like Nicci French, Michael Stanley, and Charles Todd are quite common.
Sayers, Ronald Knox, Freeman Wills Crofts, Arthur Morrison, Hugh Walpole, John Rhode, Jessie Rickard, Baroness Emma Orczy, R.
In the case of The Floating Admiral, each author also provided a sealed "solution" to the mystery as he or she had written it, including the previous chapters.
The book begins with an introduction by Dorothy Sayers in which she says:"When members of the official police force are invited to express an opinion about the great detectives of fiction, they usually say with a kindly smile: 'Well, of course, it's not the same for them as it is for us.
La idea me pareció genial.
Un cadáver exquisito a gran escala y con grandes autores, pintaba muy bien.
En cada capítulo me preguntaba cómo habían hecho; siempre pensé que para escribir un policial hay que saber de antemano la resolución, pero ellos fueron construyendo la trama capítulo a capítulo y la resolución se da al final.el último capítulo es el que menos me gustó; se me hizo un poco tedioso y no me convenció el final.
Había otros caminos que podrían haber sido más interesantes, al menos a mi gusto.
Pero se destaca cómo pudieron dejar la historia "limpia", sin hilos sueltos.
3.5 stars
The group accepted only the best mystery writers and made each swear an oath, likely written by either Dorothy L.
Sayers or G.K. Chesterton, to “play the game” honorably by being fair with her or his readers:“Do you promise that your detectives shall well and truly detect the crimes presented to them using those wits which it may please you to bestow upon them and not placing reliance on nor making use of Divine Revelation, Feminine Intuition, Mumbo Jumbo, Jiggery-Pokery, Coincidence, or Act of God?”Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
No. Was it incredibly fun and entertaining anyway?
This was jointly written by member of the Detection Club, including Agatha Christie, Sayers and Chesterton.
Each author wrote a chapter, not knowing what would come next.
This makes the later chapters better as they work to weave random events from the earlier chapters together.
The story makes sense and is better plotted than many more conventionally written stories.
Each of the later authors also provided a solution, based only on what they knew at their chapter.
Christie's was my favorite.
Overall though it was a fun, successful experiment.
Uitgelezen: "De dood van een admiraal" (1931), geschreven door dertien detectiveschrijvers als een soort experiment. Iedere auteur bouwde voort op de vorige met een eigen idee over wie de moordenaar was. Geen goed boek maar grappig om te lezen met dat in het achterhoofd.
Very interesting way to write a novel! Some parts seemed to drag on but the ones I enjoyed I intend to read in the future.
When Agatha Christie, G. K. Chesterton, Dorothy Sayers, Ronald Knox, and other Golden Age detective greats get together to create and solve a mystery, you have to sit up and listen.
Each chapter is written by a different member of the Detection Club, a group of crime writers formed in the 1920s, and this book was published in 1931.
The introduction is written by Dorothy L Sayers and she explains:"Each contributor tackled the mystery presented to him in the preceding chapters without having the slightest idea what solution or solutions the previous authors had in mind.
This makes it something more of an intellectual puzzle at times, rather than a novel, with complications such as estuarial tides meaning that a boat on the river sometimes drifts towards the sea and sometimes away from it making it hard for the reader to follow in places.
It comes as no great surprise, as Dorothy Sayers remarked in her original introduction, that the final contribution, from Anthony Berkeley, is entitled "Clearing Up the Mess".This edition has extra introductory material from Simon Brett, President of the Detection Club when this edition was produced, which includes some information about those authors unlikely to be familiar to modern readers.It may be advisable to skip the prologue provided by G.K. Chesterton until after the rest of the novel, as it gives away points from the back story of some of the characters which are key to the solution.
This book was a collaborative effort by a number of great Golden Age detective story sleuths.
The book is a good example of the Golden Age detective story in many respects, but I found it a bit disjointed because of the number of authors.
Of course I personally have a few favourites in this list, so I particularly enjoyed G.K. Chesterton's, Agatha Christie's, Dorothy L.
And Inspector Rudge is left with the task of trying to determine who killed him and why did the killer put him in a drifting boat.
A pretty good example of good old Golden Age detective story writing.
The Detection Club was a group of interwar writers of British detective fiction.
The conceit of this book is novel, pardon the pun--each club member writes a subsequent chapter of the novel.
All they have are the plot and clues laid before them in the previous chapters.
Obviously, it is only the writer of the last chapter who "knows" who the perp is.
I was afraid it would get unwieldy with all the layers added on top of one another, but these writers know what they're doing, and they advance the story without unnecessary complications (red herrings, yes!; unnecessary complications, no!).
Every author that adds a chapter adds avalanche of people, problems, complications, until a resolution is impossible.
First author Whitechurch presents Inspector Rudge with dead Admiral Penistone in the vicar's boat with the vicar's hat, but offers no final solution.
Knife is missing from back wound.
Heir, niece Miss Elma Fitzgerald is "ugly ..
broad" hair dark, coarse, eyes dark-pouched, closed p 30.
Is she a man in disguise?
Maybe not a man.
The most boring chapter is #8 "39 Steps" that ponders questions, alternatives, answers nought, an entire page to put on his slippers p 139.
After reading a couple of the closing possible solutions, confusion overwhelms, gets worse.
I was curious to see how a group of mystery writers would fare, all writing the same story, a chapter at a time.
It was more noticeable when I finished Agatha Christie's chapter (the IV, and best so far) and started the next by John Rhode.
Mrs. Christie created an amusing Mrs. Davis; the lady could stop talking once she started and bewildered inspector Rudge could not put a word in: she put him literally hors de combat!
But Christie had a way with words that made even a possibly outrageously boring character very interesting--and in this case, amusing.
The Floating Admiral is the result of a bit of amusement by a number of the leading detective story writers of the early '30s.
Agatha Christie, G.K. Chesterton, Dorothy Sayers and others passed-on each succeeding chapter to the writer next on the list in a sort of writing relay without help of either overall outline or goal except that each succeeding chapter must advance the plot without ignoring the details of the preceding chapters.
But without an agreed-to outline, the story does meander a bit.
The ending does tie-up loose ends, but the overall package is bit bulky and not very elegant.
A bit of a slog, even for a dedicated fan of the Detection Club and the Golden Age of Mystery. The only bright spot is a rather acerbic chapter by an author who appears profoundly irritated by the lack of true police procedure and method in the preceding chapters - and somewhat crankily reverses and contradicts much of the earlier evidence and deductions. I'm sure that this was great fun for the participants, but it really is hard going.
A splendid mystery novel is made all the more riotous by collaboration.
"The Floating Admiral" is replete with irony, twists, turns, in-jokes (about the story itself and mystery fiction as a genre).
The jarring transition one might expect with such frequent jumps between authors (each author wrote one chapter, with recourse to the previous chapters) is only evident once or perhaps twice, and though the solution intended by each author is often obvious (look early on for which author intends the niece of the deceased to be a man in disguise) the mystery remains intact and surprisingly consistent throughout.
