https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/475257.The_Man_Eating_Leopard_of_Rudraprayag
This is a book set in Garhwal in 1920s.Yhe book comes from an age where hunters were sportsmen and animals were trophies.Jim Corbett provides minutest details about his adventure here which also tells about Garhwal of 1920's and this narration often makes adventurers of today seem small.Further his deep sympathy for victims and acceptance of his failures is heart warming.The reason I rate this as a five star book is due to the fact that this is a perfect hunter's adventure which is a goodread even today.
He doesn't have to.As he opens the book Mr. Corbett mention that the official reports of this man eater say he killed 125 people, but Mr. Corbett says, "I know this is wrong."My thought?
Corbett discusses a few here but in this case he thinks he knows what turned the leopard into a human killer, why it developed a taste for human meat.The first known appearance of the man-eater is in 1918.
Corbett believes that over the 2+ years of the epidemic the leopard developed a taste for human flesh from the bodies simply left unburned and in the open.
За тези си действия, често свързани с голям риск за живота му, Корбет заслужава огромното уважение на индийците, мнозина от които го смятат за садху (свят човек) и дори има кръстен природен парк на негово име в Индия.
На доста моменти в книгата си личи, че човекът е повече ловец, отколкото писател, но това е бял кахър.След като разказва играта на куп тигри-човекоядци, сега Джим Корбет има нова задача - да отиде в окръг Рудрапраяг (80 кв.
Звярът е стар, грамаден (само тялото му е над 2 метра), изключително умен, хитър и не на последно място - нагъл.
The natural flow of the story, the incidents of the man eater and the methods used to gun him down was excellent.
Corbett has a way of narrating a tale.
In this story, his task was to kill one man eater who had created a havoc in many villages of Uttrakhand.
With a sharp mind and an unusual cunning, the leopard knew almost all the ways of the human world.Jim Corbett meets his match!!
While reading the book, I felt immense respect for this man eating leopard.
I loved the way how he interacted with villagers and understood their loss with immense apathy.
কী দুরদানত!! শিকার নিয়ে লেখা আমার পড়া পরথম বই। পুরো অমনিবাস শেষ করে একটা রিভিউ লেখার ইচছা আছে, তাই আপাতত পাঁচটি তারা দিয়ে রাখলাম শুধু।
কী দুর্দান্ত!! শিকার নিয়ে লেখা আমার পড়া প্রথম বই। পুরো অমনিবাস শেষ করে একটা রিভিউ লেখার ইচ্ছা আছে, তাই আপাতত পাঁচটি তারা দিয়ে রাখলাম শুধু।
In The Man-Eating Leopard of Rudraprayag Jim Corbett is faced with one of his toughest opponents.
The beast struck terror into the hearts of the inhabitants of the town for eight long years.
With the completion of The Man-Eating Leopard of Rudraprayag, I have now read all of Corbett's works and I am saddened that there is no more to read, for no one has described the jungles of India and spoken of it's inhabitants in a more beautiful manner than Colonel Edward James 'Jim' Corbett.
This is my first book from Corbett and I would surely seek an opportunity to read the rest.
The reason why I bought this book was Garhwal, where the story happened.
The natives had more than one opportunity to track or kill the leopard but they let him go because of their belief or superstition (howsoever you put it).
Even Corbett mentioned that he knew men from this place to be bravest among all and yet the most courageous act came from a lady.
The book shows Corbett's immense respect towards animals, he never mentioned leopard as a beast and treated him with respect.
Absolutely fascinating. Not only does corbett describe in absolute detail, the many nights he spent hunting the evasive leopard, but he also gives you a vivid description of life in the Tehri/Kumaon region in early nineteenth century. The book also taught me a great deal about wild life, why leopards or tigers become man eaters, how to track wild animals… Jim corbett makes you fall in love with nature.
The book was an amazing read! Primarily describing Corbett's personal experiences when he had been summoned to kill a leopard terrorizing the village folk of the Gharwals, India, it proved to be quite intriguing and informative!A must read for those who love to feel a rush of their adrenaline!
Amazing book. a must read for all Jim Corbett fans. I have now read it twice but every time you read , you can experience the terror that was this man-eater of rudraprayag. One will be spell bound and hooked to the book right from page 1 when Jim Corbett describes the prevailing feeling in Rudraprayag when this man eater was alive.
Loved it. It was a short and sweet read. Engrossing till the end.
In an era when being a trigger-happy jungle "sportsman" was probably fashionable, Corbett comes out as a brave but reluctant hunter with deep respect for the wild, whose primary motive is clearly to prevent further loss of innocent human lives.Being from India, it was also very heartening for me to read how well he connected with the native populace of that period, and the genuine respect and admiration which he holds for many of the Indian characters in his story.
This is especially remarkable considering that this was the time of British rule in India, and much (not all) British literature from that period is at best condescending in mentioning the native population.
A man eater Leopard that struck terror and fear in the minds of inhabitants from Rudraprayag a pilgrimage destination in the Garwhal region of Uttarakhand for long 8 years from 1918-1926, and killed more than 128 people ( as per government count, Corbett's assumed number is good as double) The Leopard that struck a terror so terrible that not a single person would be seen out of his house after sunset in whole of Rudraprayag for more than 8 years.The Leopard so smart and cunning that always outsmarted the hunters and how swiftly he killed and dragged a man or a woman or a child from a house would only be found after the half eaten body would be found deep somewhere in the jungle.
The failed attempts to kill the animal made it more aware of the human strengths and weaknesses, adding to its cunningness.
All these, combined with the natural stealth and prowess of a leopard made it strike terror in a large geographical area, which made it take a toll on a huge number of human lives which no other cat had ever managed, and impose an undeclared night time curfew for over years together.Jim Corbett himself, a seasoned hunter who achieved his success by playing with the psychology of the animals, was several times outwitted by the cat before he finally adds it to his trophies.
what a story. this is a real tale of a man eating leopard which claimed more than 250 lives in the rudraprayag region. the animal was finally shot by jim corbett the renowned hunter turned conservationist. the narration is so gripping that the book can only be described as 'unputdownable'. much more thrilling than any thriller i hv read till date. also learnt a lot about feline behaviour
Rudraprayag seems so surreal at times that it is enchanting! He was Corbett's fascination and love, just the way this book is, of the avid readers! Love the book and Rudraprayag's adventures...an exciting and beautifully engaging book that makes you look within and outside and appreciate the beauty of nature!
This is the 1st book i have read of Jim Corbett and he was a great writer indeed. The detail and depictions made are as accurate as it can be. A book you will have difficulty putting down :) You will love this book as an Indian telling the story of maneater of not so distant past.
Yup, still 5 stars!
A gripping account of the man-eating leopard in the hills of Rudraprayag, who carried on with his hunt for 8 long years!
The leopard tasted human flesh from unburnt corpses, and since then started visiting the villages and pilgrim routes for kills.
Once Jim Corbett is entrusted to hunt down the leopard, he starts to sense the hunter's traps and evade it quite cleverly.
Corbett is a true champion of nature, and he laments that the leopard only did what nature had told him to- eat to survive.
Such an exceptional zeal and vigour of Jim Corbett and the same being reflected upon this book in a simple language, made it one of a kind book.
Lucid and clear writing gave the insight of what the writer actually was thinking in a particular moment while sighting his target.
His nemesis, the man eating leopard, heightens the curiosity and you would like to read it on and on.
The quality that makes the book remarkable is that it doesn't use any flowery and redundant language.
Wonderful story, a real one at that, is one of the best books I ve ever read.
The description of living in constant fear, the feeling of always having to look over your shoulder. A self imposed curfew by the residents of Rudraprayag at the time driven by mortal fear. All these are written about in this book in a detached yet engaging narrative. This book is captivating, a real page turner, with all the real life incidents and especially with Jim Corbett at the helm. He is objective in describing what transpired and doesnt shy away from owning up if he made a mistake while trying to hunt down this leopard. A must read.
My all time favorite book! Have read is several times over since childhood and it does not cease to intrigue and amaze me. Re-read it recently - magical as ever.Jim Corbett's writing style is simple yet effective. The mental strength of the man that tracked and finally got the Man-eating leopard of Rudraprayag, which over its 8 years of terror-reign had "officially" killed 150+ human beings, is something that I marvel at.
It is a one breath story, an exciting read from start to finish. Every page turning to reveal that it is not just yet the time for D-Day. A thrilling read...the one that will long remain in one's mind ...for the words testify the struggle the hunter had to bear to make the only kill and the survival the man-eater had to make with every human kill. Awesome!
enjoyed reading it up in ranikhet. went well with the daily gossip about leopard sightings and villagers' anecdotes of leopards snatching up their goats and dogs. by the end of it, i was looking over my shoulders and imagining a pair of leopard eyes watching me somewhere behind the tall trees and dense vegetation.
If one loves wildlife, they cannot miss the books of Jim Corbett. I most certainly want to see a leopord, the most shy animal, once in my life, after reading this book. It's a small book and a fantastic read.
For everyoneNot just a spellbinding tale of disappointments, depression, failures and then triumphant end of man eating leopard hunt; Also a true to the core description of people, culture and natural beauty of Indian province long before the touch of modern era.
A true page turner!The unique writing style and the sheer thril of the events unfolding dotted with the accurate observations of a skilled hunter. A must read!
An excellent adventure book! I was feeling more excited because the whole story was based on true incidents.
Riveting!
Because there was once a plague and many dead bodies had to be disposed off, downhill(the place Rudrapayag lies in the foothills of the Himalayas) The leopard having tasted human flesh that time got addicted to it, and now it has started attacking the people in the villages of the hill.The leopard hunts at night.
Additionally, Rudraprayag lies en route the pilgrim road that links Haridwar to Badrinath, hence often the travelling pilgrims take halt there and stay at pilgrim quarters, which are nothing but open shades.Now imagine what if a man eating leopard is operating in such an area.People are vulnerable, unsafe and unarmed.
