https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/732275.Deep_Summer
Judith Sheramy, his 16 year old daughter secretly falls in love with a fellow traveler, Phillip Larne and they elope soon after their arrival in LA.Phillip Larne, a rather ne'er do well, Rhett Butler type, from S.C. owns the property next to the Sheramy family.
The author is from Louisiana and brings all the beauties of that state to life.The characters are all well developed and complex and I soon became invested in all of them.Life is not easy for both of the pioneering families and I was enthralled as they met each difficulty with character and grace.

If you are a fan of American civil war novels as me, you won't regret reading this one. Beautifully written and I can't help myself but admire the beauty and the bravery of southern women.
I was led into a false sense of security, snuggling down for a couple of hours reading to finish this book, and in fact finished in 5 minutes because 20% of the kindle count was the beginning of the next in series.
Timing wise, I guess this is just a bit before or about the same time frame as the beginning of Gone with the wind.
I’m looking forward to discovering the span of this trilogy, although I suspect it’s really just one long book, it would make Gone with the Wind look like a flimsy pamphlet instead of the doorstep it is, were it to be only one volume!
Deep Summer is the first of Gwen Bristow's Plantation Trilogy, which centers around a Louisiana plantation and the family who runs it.
The book chronicles Philip and Judith's life from early love through poverty, children, riches, betrayal, forgiveness, and old age - and along the way hits a few historical events like the Louisiana Purchase.
The description of the bugs alone may have you vowing never to visit Louisiana, but the book's fascination is in its portrait of a marriage.
And Bristow's clear prose is just the setting for such a jewel.
Originally published in 1946, this novel is the embodiment of classic southern historical fiction! Suffice to say, I LOVE IT!!! Well developed characters and a fast paced storyline... I really didn't want it to end!!! But I'm happy to say I get to enjoy two more books in this trilogy... I recommend to every historical fiction fan!!!
I haven't yet read a book of hers I didn't like.
I'd never read a book set during/before the American Revolution that didn't go into the war so much as the Luisiana purchase and what life was like for the settlers of Luisiana.
I can only imagine what it must have been like for Judith to go from New Hampshire's cold climate to Luisiana's muggy-buggy one.
(Bristow's books never are, that I've seen) Just that two characters are adulterous, (not together) and there was some swearing do mainly by a Spanish girl.
This is the type of book that sucks me in from the first page.
History of a place I know little about (Louisiana) human endurance, complex family relationships, and love.
It was written in the 1930's and told of the building up of a Louisiana plantation in the late 1700's.
I am not sure if it is because of when it was written, or because the author was trying to be true to the time that the story took place, but the story was told by the white people and only the white people.
Plantation life will never be the same.
I am also surprised how complex was the history of USA.
I would even say that sometimes I would rather that the story slowed a little.
But, I suppose, it had to be that to put almost forty years on two hundred pages.What would I like to change in this book?
I know Bristow's other books and I know she could write more complex story.
There were here a few touching fragments, but I think that Bristow was focused more on the historical background and the general atmosphere of those times than on the fictional characters.So, for me it is a good historical fiction, by which you will not be bored.
But it lacks a little in a human complexity.
I am torn between 'liked it' and 'really liked it'. Great read for anyone intersted in the old south and new orleans. The portrayal and address of slavery is a bit off putting. this book was written in 1937 and there is a liberal use of the "n" word. Otherwise, it is a good story. Felt that parts of it were a bit rushed. Starts off with good charater development but towards the end there are some holes. I liked it well enough to put the next installment on hold at the library.
Tolle Südstaatengeschichte. Freu mich sehr auf die weiteren Teile.
Had some corny parts, but the story got better as it went on and actually became interesting.
Die 15-jährige Judith aus Connecticut ist mit ihren Eltern und ihrem Bruder auf einem Boot in Louisiana unterwegs, um sich dort niederzulassen und ein neues Leben auf der eigenen Plantage zu beginnen.
Wie wird Judiths Leben dort aussehen?Die Geschichte des jungen Paares und des Aufbaus ihrer Plantage fesselt vom ersten Moment an.
Die politischen Hintergründe, die Unabhängigkeit der Vereinigten Staaten, der mehrfache Besitzwechsel des Landes Louisianas, der Beginn der Plantagenwirtschaft, Gelbfieberepidemien, all das bildet ein wunderbares Panorama, vor dem die Familiengeschichte wunderbar und anschaulich erzählt wird.
Der Schreibstil ist jedoch sehr gefällig und liest sich hervorragend.Kurzum eine runde, fesselnde Familiensaga, die den Leser völlig in ihren Bann zieht.
I liked this quite a bit; it's an interesting look at the very beginnings of plantation life (first indigo plantations; later sugar and cotton) in Louisiana. There is a lot about the slave trade and slavery which is uncomfortable to read now, but which I'm sure is pretty accurate. This is the start of a three-volume family saga, and it's interesting to follow the fates of the several different families in the book, who are from quite different social classes.
This series is very good. I read it years ago and still remember them. I introduced my daughter to them and she loves them also. I would recommend them if you enjoy reading about a family and following them through the years.
I loved Gwen Bristow's Jubilee Trail so wanted to read another. I enjoyed it but didn't really like one of the main characters. It was interesting to read about life back then on the southern plantations (this was set in Louisiana) were just starting, about the same time as the Revolutionary War.
Mark and Philip will both build plantations based upon slave labor and crops of indigo.The story of the Sheramy and Larne families as they build new lives gives an excellent account of how Louisiana was developed as a slave state wrapped in the rich culture of the great plantation owners.
There is occasional mention that slavery could be bad, but it seems to be the exception.I enjoyed the characters and story, and I imagine it gives a fairly accurate depiction of how the mega rich lived in the culture of their plantation world and how the poor white trash suffered in their slums.
Through her writings I could see their temporary homestead and feel Judith’s struggles with the heat, bugs and language barriers.• The story is very reflective of the period, and we see the effects of government ownership and the impact of the Louisiana Purchase.• The birth of Judith’s first son will forever be etched in my mind *shivers*  In that one scene Bristow brought the brutal reality of this rural land to life and it's a passage that will stay with me.• We experience Judith and Philip’s marriage from the early days of poverty to their final years.
What a surprising read.The last books I have read about plantation life are always filled with judgement about the slave trade but this author just told the story and you can make your own judgments which I liked.After reading 1/5th of the book I wrote: "Well I have already read nearly 1/5th of this book in one go because it is an easy read.
I was quite surprised that I liked it because yes these were the books I used to read when I was much younger.
No I am not bored because still much is happening and sometimes the author surprises me."Yes the other 4/5 was just as enjoyable.
I loved the characters and how the family started their dynasty carved from the wilderness on not much more than a dream and a prayer.
The only negative thing I can say about the book is that it was offered to me thru my Kindle Unlimited Membership, but the sequel was not and appears to be not but about $10.00 cheaper than I could buy it at my local book store, Books A Million (which I have also a paid Membership Card but which I have not used since I was given my Kindle E-reader as a gift).
Hardback books have gotten so expensive that I had started to force myself to wait for the paperback books to be released.
I've been a fan of Gwen Bristow since I was a teenager when I first read Celia Garth so I was quite excited when my sister gave me this to read.
Judith and Philip Larne are likeable, but since my present world is so far removed from them, I found it difficult to relate with them.The book is the first in a trilogy, but resolves Philip and Judith's lives and so I'm not in a rush to try to find the other books in the series (which might be difficult since they are out of print).
First of a trilogy, we meet the Larne family - Judith, the matriarch's story. How the family came to live in New Orleans, the children, extended family, and some friends. Although a good story, it skims over so much and Judith, although in the long-run is a good person who learns a lot through her life, the story begins when she is 15, so she complains a lot. I kept picturing a technicolor movie from the old movie studios... but will probably read the other two just to see what happens to the family.
I totally skimmed the last half of this book. The storyline moves along quickly, but it's TOO quickly. I wasn't given enough time during their struggles to develop real feelings about the characters and because of that, nothing they go through seems important. It all came off as shallow. Too bad because I love the time period and the setting.
A great easy read. Excellent reminder of the arc of a person's life and the very real presence of intense joy and suffering--as a result ourselves or others. Definitely fodder for reflection.
This is a rather old historical fiction book about Revolutionary War era Louisiana and the families that settled there.
It basically follows Philip Larne, a smuggler/pirate type younger son from South Carolina, and Judith Sheramy and her family from Puritan Connecticut, down the Mississippi River and onto their plots of land granted by King George III.
Philip and Judith start a family together and the book describes the years that pass by through their children becoming adults.
This book reminded me a lot of Cynthia Harrod-Eagles and the Morland Dynasty books in that the characters were secondary to the plot and history.
I had a love/hate relationship with this book.
Once I got past that I still had to navigate the sexism, racism, and overload of n-words but again, had to accept this as dated material---and the fact that all of that was going on in the time period of the storyline.
I was not that interested in the Upjohn storyline but I see that it will be carried over into upcoming novels so I guess I understand why that continued.
It was interesting insight into a region during a time period that most are focusing on the eastern US/colonies instead of the unknown "western" regions.
Couldn’t deal with the nonchalant presence of slavery (no big deal to have humans stored in boxes). Stopped reading after a few chapters... also seemed like it was heading to be a cheesy bodice-ripper, with a 15-year old girl, no less.
I guess it’s a book written at about the fifth grade level offering a simplistic view of the settling of Louisiana around the time of the American Revolution. Reading the word “ niggar” about a thousand times and hearing about how well the slaves were treated put me off considerably.
Just not sure about this one. I am always a sucker for historical fiction but this one didn't suck me in. Interesting storyline and great character development. I'll just have to read the second book to see if it gets any better.
Really enjoyed..plan to read the other two in the series.
