https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10605.Thinner
“Some guys-- a lot of guys---don't believe what they are seeing, especially if it gets in the way of what they eat or drink or think or believe. Me, I don't believe in God. But if I saw him, I would. I wouldn't just go around saying 'Jesus, that was a great special effect.' The definition of an asshole is a guy who doesn't believe what he's seeing. And you can quote me.” Richie “The Hammer” Ginelli William Halleck is a damn fine lawyer, a rising star in his firm, and well liked by judges and pol
King decided to create a pseudonym as Richard Bachman so he could publish more than just one book a year.
The Bachman books were doing ok, but they did a lot better after a bookseller named Steve Brown in Washington D.C. thought the style shown by Bachman was very similar to the writing style of Stephen King.
Richie “The Hammer” Ginelli, an Italian mobster whom Halleck helped defend in court, is a man with a code regarding helping friends in need.
Out of all the people Halleck has tried to explain his situation to Ginelli is the only one who believes him.
In my opinion, one of the best Stephen King, erhhh Richard Bachman, books I’ve ever read.
(In fact, he gets cute by having a couple of characters describe the situation as sounding like a King novel.) As with the other Bachman books it seems like Uncle Stevie ran leaner and meaner in this one.
We’ve got a nicely ironic curse of a man’s thoughtless greedy consumption being turned back on him as well as exploring the hypocritical way that the decent folk of New England will have their fun with the Gypsies and then run them out of town.One of the strongest points here is in Halleck as a character.
Loved it, it's every bit as good as I remembered and more. One of my favourites of all time and one of the best / creepiest audiobooks. Highly, thoroughly and totally recommended.
Aside from the fact that King wrote this, the premise really made me curious as to what the novel was all about.
While the start of the novel was batshit amazing and fast paced, the middle and the end was a huge dragger and almost made me not finish this.
I've read a lot of King's books, so I'm safe to say that his characters are most of the time spectacular.
Such a huge turn of events for the main character.
I almost gave this a two, but like I said above, the ending was good.
My favorite thing about the novel was the premise, and that's obviously not a good thing.
This was an addicting and enjoyable book to read!It’s a great revenge novel and I enjoyed reading about how Billy Halleck goes from a big, fat man to something rather morbid.Billy Halleck, an upscale attorney accidentally hits and kills an old gypsy woman in his car when she steps out from the sidewalk.
Unfortunately for Billy, an old gypsy man believes he is and puts a curse on him.
This is a story of revenge, being resentful towards others and having to live with the decisions you make in life.King really did well on the character development in this book and the ending sure blew me away!
I also shared his anger toward his wife because of her reaction to the whole thing.As with most King/Bachman books from this era, the story is shorter than his later works, more killer and less filler.
The more King I read, the more I realize he returns to the same concepts repeatedly, be it unprepared people going up against staggering odds, preaching against over-reliance on technology, or fascination with drifter/carnie culture and people getting shot in the hand with slingshots.
It seemed like Halleck just stepped aside and let Ginelli do all the heavy lifting near the end.
I’ve only read a few of Stephen Kings book but I have watched more in movies.This is the first one as Richard Bachman.And yes, I did enjoy it and would recommend for anyone who likes dark side/light horror.I don’t like horror, this is more “jumpy” as you Imagine “stuff” that happens.I’m rating this personally as a 3.5 due to I’ve read more psychological thrillers worse than this.Great introduction to Bachman’s work though.Funny ending. As in odd, strange.
Like the best roller coasters, we can see the drops and curves ahead, and we’re just clink-clinking and moving towards the fun.In Thinner, an overweight lawyer runs over an old gypsy woman and his legal friends work it out so he walks Scott free.
The normal becomes para-normal and the everyday becomes Samhain with pagan curses raining down with old testament vigor.King also populates this book with some of his best characters, Richard Ginelli and Taduz and Gina Lemke breathe fresh and vibrant life into this already good story.Relentless, spooky and fun, like the a roller coaster – or a freight train coming down the tracks that you’re stuck on.
I first saw the movie for this back in the 90s, long before I read this book.
Maybe I just like terrible movies.
I don’t know.But, that said, I've never read this book.
I’m not a huge Stephen King fan by any stretch, but he really nailed it with this one.
Maybe I’m a Richard Bachman fan then?
It's a book built to be read quickly.
As such, it’s easy to lose yourself In Billy Halleck’s plight, and to connect with the “hero” who is really more deplorable than he is likable.Again, not being a huge reader of King, it’s hard to say where this ranks amongst his other works, but for me, this was my kind of story delivered in my kind of style.
The older Stephen King novels continue to amaze me......this one grabbed me from page one and did not let go! When grossly overweight attorney Billy Helleck unintentionally hits (view spoiler)[and kills (hide spoiler)] an old gypsy woman who darts out into the street, (view spoiler)[(while being "hand serviced" by his wife) (hide spoiler)] the incident is not properly investigated, and soon after, he, his buddy Judge Cory who presided plus friend, Officer Hopley are "touched" and "cursed" by a s
(hide spoiler)] the incident is not properly investigated, and soon after, he, his buddy Judge Cory who presided plus friend, Officer Hopley are "touched" and "cursed" by a super old, super creepy (rotted nosed) gypsy.
As the evil curses begin to erode their bodies, Billy (now skeleton-like) takes matters into his own hand (with the skilled aid of friend and gangster Ginelli) to try to have the horrors bestowed upon he and his friends reversed resulting in a shocker of an ending!Thought it was GREAT!
When Billy is leaving the courthouse, he is stopped by a very old ancient looking gypsy man who gently caresses Billy's cheek with his finger, and whispers one word to Billy..."Thinner".
As each day goes by, Billy loses more and more weight and he realizes at the rate he's going, he will soon be a human skeleton if it doesn't stop.
He believes that the old gypsy man placed a curse on him.
Billy then decides he must seek out the old gypsy man and get him to undo the curse.I was looking for something a bit different to read and this book definitely delivered.
The gypsies in the story were really brought to life.
Because the judge is his old golf buddy, he’s not convicted of any crime, even though, as we later learn, Billy’s attention wasn’t completely on the road.Turns out, however, that the deceased was part of a travelling Romani troupe (they’re called Gypsies in the book), and her father, a decrepit old man with a hole for a nose named Taduz Lemke, has put a curse on Billy.
The scariest parts of the book come when Billy begins investigating who else may have been cursed by Lemke because of the old woman’s death.
First Stephen King book of the year and I guarantee there will be more. Full review (but kinda short): https://amelianamora18.wixsite.com/am...
The story was slowly building up from page one and it was creepy, ominous and eerie but then a good 25% of the novel just dragged on and on.
I just thought the road trip William went on was just so boring and I wanted it to end which is never a good thing when reading a book.
Every character except Ginelli and William felt like cardboard cutouts and they weren't fleshed out enough for me.
I thought the story itself was good.
I just wish that the story and characters were better because it would have made me like this book more.
I thought the end was good and I liked it.
3.5 estrellas. En un rato regreso a hacerle la reseña xq es tarde ahorita y tengo sueñits xd
The beginning of the book gripped me, but, unfortunately, after a hundred pages or so, the story slowed down.
After months and months, I finally started reading it again, and boy, oh boy, did the book become so much better after that.
The second half of the novel gripped me again and it did not let go until I read the final page.
However, even though it did leave me wanting more, I was satisfied with the way the story ended.
When I thought about it, there is not a better way to end a story like this one.
I've spoken to a friend about how Richard Bachman books a.k.a. Stephen King books sound so different from his normal ones.
There is a different voice associated with the Bachman books.
They seem like any other paranormal story written by anyone.
What Billy doesn't know is that the father of the old woman has friends in high places as well.
The story gets a 3.5 stars because of the slow pace.
I knew something like that was coming.
It's a traditionally scary story ending where everyone in the book thinks they are going to come away without a scratch and then they are sorely disappointed.
I have been obsessed with Stephen King's work for about seven years, from the first moment I checked out "Carrie" from my high school's library. "Thinner" certainly did not disappoint! The stellar writing and the character's complexities brought me back to that feeling I got when I first picked up a King novel: the belief that, although the plot seems outrageously far-fetched, it still somehow feels real.
4/5 stars “In many ways the world is nothing but a pile of shit. But it can also be very beautiful.” Oh my god, I just flew through this book. It was just so fast-paced, gripping and entertaining, I really didn't want to put it down. As soon as I read the synopsis of this book I knew that it sounded like something I'd enjoy. It's a weird concept but when you really think about it, it's also terrifying. Basically, our main character has been cursed to lose weight...forever, with no end in sight.
It was the ending that has left me completely speechless and shocked to the core.Billy Halleck is a pretty average American man.
As he suddenly loses weight uncontrollably and goes from overweight to a skeletal man, Billy must try to find the Gypsy man and find a way to reverse the curse.
He was an unforgettable character and I still can’t decide whether he was good or bad or whether he did what he did yo help Billy or for his own enjoyment.The ending of this book was completely shocking and memorable.
Buen libro.
Su idea es muy interesante: una persona obesa que va perdiendo peso por un maleficio hecho por una gitana.
Empieza bastante lento; al menos a mí no me enganchó desde la primera página.
Tengo que decir que cuando lo empecé quería dejarlo.
Y lo dejé.
Pero muchas veces puede ser muy hermoso.Es un libro que en varias partes se me hizo denso.
En una novela más larga quizás no me importe tanto, pero es una historia corta...En fin, a pesar de ser un poco tedioso en algunos capítulos, es un buen relato.
Muy entretenido e interesante.
3.5*This was a first read for me and I have not seen the movie.
I don't know what it was about this book but I read a ton in the last 2 days.
The story is ok, enough to keep you hooked but not terribly suspenseful.
I'd say most people know what the story is about before picking up the book.
The dreams Billy has are pretty scary and what happens to his friends.
the book really picks up once Billy's friend, Ginelli the gangster, shows up.
Of the Bachman books I've read, I think this would be my favorite so far.
FULL REVIEW COMING SOON
I really thought this was an interesting bit of a departure by King from a basic horror concept. More of a character study, complete with a gypsy curse and a man struggling not to lose his life and his sanity. THINNER is a great book!
After all, all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy!One night while Billy is driving home and his wife, um, distracts him, he hits an old gypsy woman who dies instantly.
Just as Billy gets out of the courthouse, the old gyp comes to Billy and touches his cheek, whispering the sole, menacing word - "thinner".Billy dismisses the old man as mad, and goes back to his life as if nothing had happened.
A curse where he begins to lose a lot of weight and it shows no sign of slowing down...The first half of this book was SO GOOD.
However, I thought that it died down and stalled around the half-way mark, and kinda felt like it was starting to drag on slightly.
I also just didn't really like the wife, in general, she was irritating at times.Overall, I thought Thinner was a fun, quick read that I definitely enjoyed more than my first Bachman book - The Running Man. I also loved how King cheekily made references to his own novels...you sly dog!
Agobio, horror y desear la muerte.Así me he ido sintiendo con este espectacular libro.Es realmente agobiante ver que cada dia pierdes peso y no puedes hacer nada para remediarlo, sabes que vas a morir, y nadie ni nada puede hacer algo.Y ese final...
es muy bueno.Como siempre, en cada novela suya hay una parte de él en el protagonista, y sus miedos al tabaco y al cancer siempre queda reflejado.
Porque sabe muy bien lo que es horror y no terror, y el saber que te mueres y no poder hacer NADA para remediarlo es lo peor que puede pasarte, y no que se te presente un fantasmita, ni un marcianito...Grande King.
That makes me a little sad, too — I've enjoyed writing every review in my Stephen King reread project thus far.
Luckily, I definitely have some fun ones (Skeleton Crew, It, Misery) coming up soon.I think what made this reading experience a little different than, say, reading and reviewing Pet Sematary or The Shining is the fact that I'd never read Thinner before, despite having owned it for years.
I'd had a little experience with Thinner (I think I read the first chapter before giving up and never going back to it, until now), so I had no prior relationship with the story.
This is a tough book for me to rate because I can’t help but compare it to the other Bachman book I’ve read, The Long Walk, which was a solid 5 stars and instantly became one of my favourite books of all time.
The writing in Thinner was King’s classic style with fantastic internal dialogue.
The plot was interesting and the characters well-fleshed out.
My main issue was that despite being a relatively short book, I felt it dragged at time, particularly in the middle.
Overall an enjoyable read but not as good as some of his other novels.
An older man who is the head of the group of Romani people comes up to Bill and touches his cheek and says "thinner." From there Bill starts to lose weight and struggles to push out of his mind hitting and killing the older woman and the man who touched him.Most of the book is Billy justifying what happened and saying how it's not really his fault.
Eventually the book goes sideways when King introduces a friend of Billy's who is going to take care of getting the curse off of him, Ginelli.
I think this may have just edged itself into my top ten King books. Yes I know it’s not TECHNICALLY a King but I like breaking the rules! Something about this story just got deep inside of me and settled down into my bones. Right from the beginning I was completely hooked and I couldn’t turn the pages fast enough to see what would happen next. Something about this story is just so damn unsettling, it gives me the heebie jeebies just thinking about it. And that ending just killed me and gave me shivers, it was just perfection!
