https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112146.Pre
But the details of his life and character are very flimsy -- the author doesn't even include one interview from Pre's family or key head coaches -- a very telling omission.
Pre's well known front running is barely mentioned and it would have been interesting to hear more thoughts on that -- from coaches, sports therapists, his family.
But the author dismisses the idea Pre was drunk in an almost 'hero worship' manner -- it's pretty unprofessional.So basically, I didn't like this book and clearly wanted a lot more.
It seems to me that Steve Prefontaine merits a high quality biography.
His story is the stuff of legends, so much so that high school cross-country kids wear "Pre Lives" shirts from Nike not fully aware of who the guy is.
He is also the first athlete-promoter for a company (in this case, Nike), and he led the fight to end "shamateurism", the Olympic and AAU rules that treated athletes like crap, expecting them to somehow train full-time and not get paid for running in races.
You receive little to no window into what Steve Prefontaine the man was like.
Steve Prefontaine or as fans call him Pre was one of the most famous athletes of the early 1970s and well on his way to becoming more than an athlete but an activist who would made a real impact on the world before his untimely death just prior to the summer games of 1974.
I’ll leave you with his quote, that will make you want to pick up this book and learn more,“To give anything less than your best is a sacrifice to the gift!” – Steve Prefontainep.s. as far as Pre movie’s goWithout Limits & Prefontaine – both based on Pre’s life and came out within a year of each other.
This book was terribly disappointing.
The book could have been written by a computer.
It was just a jumble of times, records, and slight commentary in between.
Hardly anything was written about besides Pre's accomplishments on the track.
I didn't get a sense of Pre the person, who he was off the track, which is what is usually included in a biography.
Childhood, a fascinating period in any legend's life, was covered in a few references to records broken on the track and in cross country.
Pre deserved a better author to write his biography, as this gives no depth to America's greatest running legend.
This is such a great story that I remember growing up with and hearing about from my coaches. I remember watching the movie and thinking about how fascinating Pre was. Unfortunately, for me, I felt like this book was kind of all over the place and focused too much on individual events. Would have liked to hear a little bit more about Pre as a person and have some more closure to the ending.
This little book accomplished what the author set out to do, that is to provide a glimpse into the life and running career of Steve Prefonaine.
It still irritates me that people who should know better drive drunk and/or without a fastened seat belt.
A sober, seat-belted Steve Prefontaine on that night in May 1975 would probably still be alive today.If you have ever run your guts out while training or in a distance race, you will appreciate this book.
When even a great runner like Prefontaine says, "You have to wonder at times what you're doing out there", you will know exactly what he means.
What an incredible person.
After reading the book I am even more fascinated by him.
His story is so great, an underdog from Coos Bay Oregon.
He was an incredible runner, and it was because he gave 120 percent to everything he did.
And the people of Oregon loved him for it.
Thousands of people would show up at the University of Oregon to watch him run.
He was an incredible runner, that people still measure themselves against him today is amazing.
It's a great book if you are a runner, and even if you aren't his story is worth reading.
Definitive (really only) biography of Steve Prefontaine.
An inspirational figure whose life was cut short in a controversial car crash after a night of partying.
He brought a new style to running that led a boom of popularity across the US and took down the AAU which had been mistreating athletes for years.
Pre is a true hero of mine so I was unhappy to find out this very short read was basically laced with facts you could find anywhere on the internet and mostly filled with recounts of his races and fell short on details of the runner as a person.
When I first picked up this book I couldn't put it down. At the time it was a first for me. Way better than the movies about him. This man wanted to race the best because he believed down to his bones that he had more guts than anyone on the track to win. By racing the best, he made himself better.amazing book.
My all time running hero! Brought back great memories of wanting to run like PRE.
What an exceptional bio! A very impactful too short life!
A tragic biography of a world class runner cut down in the prime of his life. I love all things PRE! Read the book then read Bowerman and the Men of Oregon. Then watch Without Limits and Prefontaine.
This book read like an over-long, uninspired AP article. Jordan did a great job of sticking to the facts, but I was hoping for backstory instead of just a rundown of his athletic achievements.
The only word that describes him after reading this book is WOW!
I have never heard of another athlete with his tenacity and mental toughness, and my guess is that it would be hard to find someone to match him.
The only other athlete that I can compare his toughness to is Lance Armstrong.
His drug taking aside, Armstrong trained with the same tenacity as Pre. They both had to win, devoured opponents that challenged them, and drove themselves into the ground daily.His tragic ending is beyond words.
I think this book should be on the reading list for every high school student.
I've heard people talk about Steve Prefontaine but I'd never read his story.
"Pre: The Story of America's Greatest Running Legend" is filled with lots of Pre's statistics, names of other runners and races he ran.
And maybe that is because Steve Prefontaine was loved by many but known by few.
I do feel like I've taken a glimpse into his life.
I loved hearing the stories of his intense training, mental preparation, "running your guts out" style of racing and how much he hated to lose.
Interested to see if I can find a better biography of his life.
My major complaint about this book is I wanted more -- more background, more detailed recaps of his most important races, more insights from his peers, competitors and coaches, etc. Steve Prefontaine was the James Dean of American distance racing. Nike ran a great ad campaign with him. He made running seem cool and it would have been interesting to see what would have happened at the 1976 games. Someone needs to write a definitive bio on Pre!!
i moderately enjoyed this book. as a runner, i definitely noticed, and related to the struggle of running represnted throughout the book. i can see it being an inspiration to other runners who don't think they can accomplish there goals of running, whether it be running for fun or a lifetime of running for medals. this book was written in a way easily understood with minimal parts causing confusion. if youre looking for a book about the strength and passion.
Read this in preparation for running the marathon in Eugene, OR. The race finishes at Hayward Field. With that and a visit to Pre's rock, my trip was complete. This is probably not a good casual read as it is mainly details about racing and Pre's strategy and training. He died so young there really isn't all that much about his personal life. Another tragedy - he died way too young.
Quick read, good information, but not told in a terribly compelling way. Sure, I know how it ends, but the writer could still attempt to invoke a little emotion. Reading about Pre still gets to me, either way, and I enjoyed getting a more statistical approach to how his track and cross country career unfolded. It felt like more of a reference book about his races. I'll leave it at that.
Quick read, interesting on Pre's personality, but a lot on the start on times and accomplishments focused on America. Pre "woke up" to the world of running outside America late in the book, that could be explored more, but after all, great person and great read for a spark in your daily tasks.
Quick read about a great running legend that shed light on who he was outside of running, as well. IT definitely insipres me to run more. "To give anything less than your best is to sacrifice the Gift." -Pre
EXCELENTE
Good book about a great runner. Not the best writing, but a quick read. Shoe Dog by Phil Knight about Nike was better and also touched on Pre, though not nearly this much detail.
It's about the man.This one goes into some detail about Pre as a person, another example of how people we hold up as icons are still people.
Pre is a great book on the Rock Star of Distance Running.
I read this in one night so yeah I guess you could say I enjoyed it
Writing not the greatest but their is no denying Pre was a very special athlete.
Steve, commonly known as "Pre", set the most American records in running at the time and remained unbeatable in any distance over a mile for over 2 years in the U.S. This book tells the life of Pre from his childhood in Coos Bay, Oregon, his budding interest in cross-country which would end in the state championship and an undefeated season his senior year, to his time as an amateur athlete when it was commonly known as "shamateurism", to his defeat in the 1972 olympics, and ending at his death on May 30, 1975.
It talks about his life experiences around the world and the challenges he faced as a runner.It starts off by giving background information on his parents and small town he grew up in.
The book sometimes mentions other runners of the time period and what they thought of this small town Oregon kid that was on his way to the Olympics, but it was mostly just about Pre. It hits every one of his races from 9th grade cross country to past his senior year of college, with extensive detail.
“To give anything less than your best is to sacrifice the gift”- an ideology that drove the relentless training and racing style of famous American runner Steve Prefontaine. This U.S. Olympian, who grew up in Coos Bay, California, made his mark on Track and Field running the 5K and exhilarating all spectators lucky enough to see him race. Although Steve Prefontaine is no longer with us, his influence lives on and sets a precedent for runners today. Tom Jordan relates the amazing story of this A
“To give anything less than your best is to sacrifice the gift”- an ideology that drove the relentless training and racing style of famous American runner Steve Prefontaine.
An American 10,000 meter runner who looked up to Pre a child commented that “he pretty much treated each day like it was his last practice or competition.” Pre’s Oregon track coach Bill Dellinger said “I guess the thing that stands out is that he went through four years of college without ever missing a workout because of cold or illness.
