https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67699.The_Charioteer
I can't remember many books that more successfully conveyed private emotional states, a description of the physical world, complex and convincingly human characters and their interactions, and all the rest of that stuff that contributes to making up a really class-A, five-star novel.
Anyone who can hang her novel on some Plato, as Renault does, and make it work so beautifully that a girl like me actually spends time poking at the Phaedrus online, deserves some sort of prize -- perhaps an extra star!I couldn't stop wondering, as I read this, why I tend so often to love novels about mid-twentieth-century gay men so much.
significantly excellent.in some passages so stunningly real and identifiable i found myself experiencing things that had happened to me in nearly the same way, as if for the first time.i feel like i already knew everyone i met in this book.definitive. absolutely definitive. discussion with author alexis hall: http://www.prismbookalliance.com/2014...
Probably the single most influential book I ever read. Beautifully written, evocative, haunting, powerful.
When I first heard of Mary Renault and her gay novels, I immediately assumed that because they were written in the 1950’s and by a woman that they were bound to be bad.
She really gets the whole living in fear and shame thing, the way it distorts your life, causes you to doubt yourself, the overly sensitive panic that “They” somehow know.
On another reading--the one I prefer--it's a statement that gay men and women are not just their sexuality, in the same way that straight men and women are not just their sexuality.
The trouble comes when it’s all that you define about yourself when we are all so much more than that.
The novel’s plot might be boiled down to the love triangle that grows out of these relationships, but there’s a lot more going on here: a timeless exploration of the nature of homosexuality and the essence of love; a depiction of the struggle queers experience navigating between their families of origin and the social families they create; and the daily challenges of disability, as both Laurie and Ralph have been mutilated in the course of their military service.So why isn't The Charioteer as well known as other mid-20th century masterworks like Giovanni’s Room and A Single Man?
It’s a world record! I’ve got 53 notes and 204 highlights! I had to reread many passages a few times!?!?! And it was not enough.I’m still in awe, how is this even possible for a ”bookish, suburban woman” in 1953 to write such a complex book about gay men?
I liked the character of Ralph and could see that he has probably loved Laurie for a long time.
He knows that he could probably influence Laurie in his choice, but chooses not to - an admirable quality.In a way this book is very much of its time and this comes through clearest in its portrayal of certain ideas about homosexuality.
Even references to the sexuality of Laurie and Ralph at the beginning are masked in such a way that if you didn't know they were gay then you might not even pick it up.This was quite a difficult book to rate.
Mary Renault is one of those authors for whom I was tempted to give 5 stars to all of her books, because I enjoyed them so much. But in the interests of maintaining standards (Hi Betsy!), I will give 5 stars to "The Charioteer", a book probably 50 years ahead of its time, but go ahead and recommend all of her historical fiction anyway. With perhaps "The Mask of Apollo" and "The King must Die" being my favorites among her remaining books.
The fact that this book has already incorporated itself so far into the reading community attests to how society likes to consider the issue of homosexuality and co.Much as the subtle touch and go of a socially forbidden romance proves an indulgence to read, even more so when soaked in warfare, ancient literary influence, and the bildungsroman of a double life, I wouldn't wish it on anyone.
The more one has to balance the self to not be torn apart, the less one can trust inherent motivations, or know when it is necessary to bend in order to avoid the snap.In many ways, this work plays on the stereotypes of the Euro/Neo-Euro male homosexual community, what with the beard and affiliation for Ancient Greece and the congregated promise of sexual rapacity.
It's impossible for me to rate certain books objectively, because of the life-changing impact they had on me.I read The Charioteer in 1976, when I was 13.
It can be a slow book, with a lot of introspection about issues, which have, in many societies, been resolved today.
I liked the pace, because at the time I was working through some of the same issues, and I still like it today, because I still don't know if I have answers to some of the questions The Charioteer helped me formulate back then.
The Charioteer ~ Plato…Let us say, then, that the soul resembles the joined powers of a pair of winged horses and a charioteer. Now the horses and drivers of the gods are of equal temper and breed, but with men it is otherwise… it sinks down in the midst of heaven, and returns to its own home. And there the charioteer leads his horses to the manger, and puts ambrosia before them, with nectar for their drink. Such is the life of the gods. *Really helps to have some understanding of this allegory
No, it most certainly is not all right!All of The Charioteer is told through Laurie and begins with him as a child finding his father packing to leave which, I believe, is a large part of Laurie’s overall melancholic attitude.
Laurie’s mother is the perfect 1940s woman who doesn’t acknowledge anything that runs counter to her picturesque world.
He’s actually the only character that I halfway liked.
He’s that person that shows his love or admiration rather than stating it but, he's also a stubborn ass at times.
I need to build Mary Renault a worship shrine. And maybe one for Ralph Lanyon as well.
My heart.
Because I feel like someone tore it out and stomped on it.I stayed up way later than I usually do, last night, to finish this, because I couldn't wait any longer.
The intense and emotional turmoil inside of me started with Andrew's letter and followed through to the end.It wasn't until I finished, and turned off the lights to go to sleep, that I realized what I had been holding in.
And I cried for a few minutes: for the story, for the beautiful writing, for the characters.The story was subtle and slow-moving; romantic and emotional.
Soon Laurie and he begin a friendship that could with one touch or kiss turn into a love affair.But Laurie is convinced that Andrew doesn't know his own nature yet.
That Andrew hasn't realized that he is gay and because Laurie still believes one can change and marry and all that jazz, he holds back from Andrew to save him the terrible discovery of his nature.Of course you have to forgive Laurie, this is 1940.Now the other horse enters and he is Ralph, a handsome, reserved and generous naval officer also injured at Dunkirk.
I thought I was keeping an equal distance from him and the other characters, but when I got to the end, I realized I wasn't able to detach my point-of-view from his and he totally, totally convinced me of his perceptions, so much so that I thought Ralph had really spoken to Andrew.
The writing is subtle and beautiful, it's not only to be read, but also to be contemplated.
This is my all-time favorite book, for many reasons that are hard to explain.
In the simplest terms, it's a love story set in England during WWII.
Some people have said that Mary Renault is too reserved, or too subtle in her descriptions of a scene.
But I think she was a genius at capturing the real, honest essence of people and relationships.
She's a master at communicating all those things that go unspoken, which can mean everything to a relationship.If Renault has any flaw, it's almost that her characters are TOO good.
It's hard not to fall in love with all of them...
Time moves on – World War 2 happens and we next catch up with Laurie in hospital where he’s developing a heavy crush on a concientious objector, Andrew – and then he meets Ralph again.The Charioteer is the thread and metaphor which runs throughout the book.
Ralph is irresistable – as Laurie finds him to be, and I really felt the attraction, he’s quite my favourite character – but all of them are amazingly well done, complex, contrary, stupid and real.One of the best books I’ve ever read – regardless of theme – and one of the Essential Reads for anyone interested in the genre, in my opinion.
To think I might never have read it - I don't care how melodramatic it sounds, but I discovered this book by pure accident, because I was looking for stuff on Alexander the Great because I have been interested in Ancient Greek lately because I liked that Achilles/ Patrick Cleese moment in Wonder Woman so much - I was just killing time at work, looking for books at random, remembering Mary Renault's name from way back.
On one side is Andrew, a pious, naive young conscientious objector who works in the hospital as an orderly; on the other is Ralph, an old school friend who, despite having many affairs with men and women while traveling the world in the navy, still harbors strong feelings for Laurie.
But if Laurie does not decide, he will lose both of the men he loves.The Charioteer is, for a book published in the mainstream press in the 1950s, remarkably frank about the sexuality of its characters.

I knew I was gonna like this book a lot when I decided to read it, but I didn't know how much it was going to CONSUME MY LIFE for a few days (goodbye work ethic, but also why this is getting five stars rather than four).
And that was the kind of book I read predominantly in my adolescence so I think that's another element to it.) On the other hand, it is a challenging novel to read for a reason I adore in books: there is so much left unsaid, so much you have to gather from what the characters are dancing about saying but aren't saying outright.
Yet, at this time, in this place, for him, those two questions become all.And so, here is the heavy underpinning to Mary Renault’s superb “romance” novel, The Charioteer.On the surface, The Charioteer progresses with the impressions of a confused, young man as he navigates his way through a previous “crush,” a current “love,” the lurid decadence of a gay “party,” and the questions attendant to his own identity.
And, Renault provides mirroring heterosexual relationships throughout: Reg’s difficulty with Madge, Laurie himself, with Nurse Adrian, and Laurie’s Mother, with her engagement to Mr. Straike.Although a reader then may see the characters and plot simply as a “playing out” of Plato’s dialogue, s/he subsequently will miss the full impact of this novel.
Me esperaba mucho más y el hype lo ha matado. Pensaba q era la historia de una relación de tres, pero sólo ha sido un triángulo amoroso entre chicos bastante mediocre...
Where do I start with this one?? The prose outdoes Harper Fox herself…and I didn’t think that could be done. Haunting, evocative, brilliant writing, which captures the tense atmosphere and gloomy, subdued mood of the early WWII years extremely well. Who to trust, what to say, how to behave…these weren’t just issues for the gay population to think about and concern themselves with at that time, although they obviously had much more to lose should their ‘secret’ see the light of day.Yes, it is a
After Ralph is ‘sent down’ in disgrace from school, they meet again 7 years later under very different circumstances….Ralph is in charge of the Merchant Navy vessel that has picked up several injured survivors from the Battle of Dunkirk in 1940, and Laurie just happens to be one of those survivors.I’m not going into too much detail.
There were characters I really liked, and there were a few I actually despised [Bunny, Sandy, Laurie’s mum and future step father in law...take a bow], but the main thrust of the story is about Laurie…his hopes and ideals, his 'innocence', his reluctance to accept himself for what he is AND his meeting a young man, Andrew, who knew even less about himself than Laurie did.
The Charioteer is one of her earlier novels, set more in modern times (World War II), at an army hospital as it happens.Basically the main character, Laurie (called Spud because his last name’s Odell, bless him) is wounded at Dunkirk and falls madly in love with a conscientious objector who is an orderly at his army hospital.
And overall, it’s just such an understated and melancholy book, and I really do like Ralph an awful lot.
He’s such a dear and he loves Laurie so much.I will add this caveat: There’s a fair bit of unpleasantness with the more effeminate gay characters.
The three main characters are at very different points in their lives at the start of the novel.
Laurie is at a point right between discovery of why he feels different and acceptance of himself.
Ralph is comfortable in, knowledgeable about, and has experience with different facets of homosexual relationships and community.
Andrew is completely blind about his inclinations and is just beginning to realize he is different.
Not only is Renault able to show a whole spectrum of experience through these three characters but the story takes on a life of its own as their three lives collide and intertwine.
lanyon is being expelled because of an indiscretion with a younger studentby chapter three we find ourselves in a hospital ward 2 1/2 hours outside london where laurie sustains leg injuries after he has fought at the dunkirk evacuation, he becomes involved in a platonic and innocent romance with andrew who is an orderly in the wardat this same time and by chance, laurie, coerced into attending a gay house party "something between a lonely hearts club and an amateur brothel," is reunited with ralph, picking up their relationship where the school had left usthroughout, laurie come back to Phaedrus and the chariot allegory; our view of the human soul --a chariot, led by two horses, one light, one dark, pulling in opposition and it is up to the charioteer to control his rein...
There was a point in the book when I suddenly started feeling that I almost participate in the events, that I wait together with the main character for the next things to happen in an excited expectation.
There were parts where you would spend several hours reading about the events happening in almost the same number of hours, which created an even stronger feeling of involvement.After finishing the book I have went through all the reviews and found that a lot of readers felt involved in the same way as me, staying up late, reading for short moments when waiting to cross the street, etc.
He mustn't be told he's a passenger when human decency's fighting for survival, in case it upsets his religion.
He mustn't know you're in love with him, in case he feels he can't go on having his cake and eating it.
If he amounts to anything, he won't really want to be let off being human.
One look at other people's reviews and it'll be immediately apparent that Renault has touched her readers deeply, and I'm no less than everyone else.
It works on more than one level, and in fact it's one of those books that can be re-read to discover what you missed the first, second, third time around.
When you have finally extracted all the meanings you are able to, it is time to read The Phaedrus and understand all the references that Renault makes to it.I was deeply moved by this novel.
