https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/367158.Fire_and_Hemlock
Or so she thinks, until one day she's cleaning out her old bedroom and starts to remember - in great detail; it takes up most of the book - a different life, a second set of memories revolving around a somewhat older man, Thomas Lane, who had been her friend while she was a child, and with whom she shared some very strange, otherworldly experiences.
Polly realized (view spoiler)[that she was in love with Thomas when she was sixteen (hide spoiler)], but something happened and she forgot she ever knew him, until these old memories were triggered.
I thought it was a solid 3-star read, no question.But then I read some Goodreads reviews from people who love this novel (though there are plenty of others who felt like me).
Now I sit there and think, "Here I am, reading this book," or "This book is well-written," or "that doesn't seem plausible." How deeply unsatisfying is *that*?Dianna Wynne Jones's best books follow one brilliant pattern, which I'm not really going to get into here except to say that the endings are always the same: huge, chaotic, messy implosions in which the characters, time, space, and a thousand different worlds all reach some frenetic pitch and then collapse in on themselves with a hugely satisfying crash.
I think we should seek the key to our ending in a way that it resolves the problem between blurring reality and imagination and Polly's heroic journey, both of which stand at the heart of the novel.
And I don't find in the book any true clue to Tom gathering his inner strenght once Polly betrays him: he just goes and wins.(4) Or we can stick to following the lines of the narration, but blame the fact that he sinks not on the duel itself but on his original gift from Laurel, that always turns what he summons against him.
When I tried to think of a way to describe this book I kept having a GIF go through my head.
At least, it's entirely one-sided for most the vast majority of the novel.Still, their friendship is uncomfortably coloured by the constant reminder that, yes, these two are going to be a couple.
The characters were great but none of them were ever truly lovable.
Even the ones who were meant to be lovable.
I can't say that I'd ever read it again or remember it as fondly as I'll remember Howl's Moving Castle, but it's still a good book.
Jones’ book references, quite apart from their relevance to the plot (as when Tom insists that Polly reads the book on fairy tales he has sent her), must be a good indicator of Diana's own childhood and adult reading matter.
I'll start with the fairy who seduces the Tom Lin character, Laurel (or, to give her the names she has in the Will reading which takes place early in the novel, Eudora Mabel Lorelei Perry Lynn Leroy).
She is of course a natural rival for Tom's affections with Polly Whittacker (= "white acre").The novel has three locations, London, Oxford and Bristol, all three of which are places where DWJ lived and which reflect on the part-autobiographical nature of Fire and Hemlock.
In a way it reminds me of Laird Koenig's The Little Girl Who Lives Down The Lane in that it makes you absolutely fall in love with the characters and you wish them all the best yet you can never be certain whether they got their happy ending because there's an eternal cliffhanger (don't we have a law against those?).
It was just beautiful and so true and so desperately touching I almost lost it.Overall, I think Fire and Hemlock was one of the most rereadable books I've read, even compared to Diana's other novels which I've always loved rereading because I've felt like there's always something I didn't catch last time.
I wish I could give this book infinite stars.
I was disappointed in this when I was 10, but all my friends seem to have loved it so I gave it another try.
It makes more sense now, although it is still rather confusing, especially the end.
There were just too many elements that didn't work for me.
I didn't like Polly that much as a character, even though I thought her depiction was excellent.
I liked the parts about reading and writing -- but then that sort of died away as Polly got older.
In the end there were too many elements not adequately explained.
But I'm the no-loose-ends type.

Some of Jones's books (Howl's Moving Castle, for instance) I've loved, some (some of the less stellar Chrestomanci books) I've liked, and a couple have just been disappointing for me.
One was the ick factor of (view spoiler)[ a romance that starts when the heroine is ten, with a divorced adult man.
Our heroine learns to deal with family problems, forms lasting and not-so-lasting friendships, copes with school dramas, and spends a lot of time on Boys.
Still, I read it aloud, to my teenagers, and they also found the ending confusing, though one of them Loved the book ("It was Amazing!") and one of them liked it ("3.5 stars").
It's gorgeously written, full of sharp images: listening to Tom and his string quartet practice, Polly thinks that "[i:]f you were able to hear lime juice, it would sound like violins." Polly and Tom are wonderful characters, and Jones delineates their relationship with skill, as it moves from an adult and child friendship into something else.The fantastical elements of the book are subtle at first and grow over the course of the book into a mystical ending, which I must admit is the one thing I'm not entirely happy with; it's a little too confusing (or perhaps too subtle) for me.
I don't think I fully picked up on parallels to one of my favorite fairy tales, 'East o' the Sun, West o' the Moon' the first time around, but Polly's initial reaction to reading the story herself is pretty entertaining in retrospect.It would be easy to be squicked out by the friendship/maybe romance between Polly and Tom (10+ years her elder), except that DWJ manages to create something that comes across as genuinely affectionate and unique in the way that real friendships are.
I was sure at first that I'd read this when I was younger, and bits still chimed with me, but a lot of it felt like new discoveries.
I do kind of wonder why there was rather a lot of emphasis on Polly's family woes, although I guess it does make it that much more realistic.
(Here on Spotify, lyrics here.) It's a modern take on it, really, an extension of the old legend into the present.The main trouble with it is how much it picked up pace in the last quarter or so of the book.
For me, this book epitomises the lone overarching problem I have with Wynne Jones' writing and that is the fast pacing of her conclusions; a fault made obvious by the furious application of obscure (for my illiterate brain) and dense allusion in the final chapters of Fire and Hemlock.
Having said that, Fire and Hemlock for me has enough to outweigh this flaw in the brilliance of Jones' writing - the complexity of Polly's maturation occurring concurrently with an equally complex quest, the affection she makes you feel for these characters through Jones' wit and acutely drawn familiarity, and that flair she has for writing magical situations within completely mundane settings which radiate clearly in your imagination with surreal wonder and believability.

"Tam Lin" also holds a special place in the hearts of fantasy fiction fans: Diana Wynne Jones, Patricia McKillip, and Alan Garner are just a few of the esteemed genre writers who have penned novels based on the legend.When asked why they are so fascinated by the legend of "Tam Lin," most people claim it is the fact that the legend, in a rather proto-feminist way, revolves around the deeds of a female hero: a young woman named Janet who goes to battle against the Queen of Fairyland to save the soul of a man named Tam Lin whom the Queen has kidnapped and enthralled.
She flips through it and can't find half the stories she remembers having read in it, which makes her panic a bit: she wonders if she's dreamed those other stories, or if, somehow, she has two sets of memories, like one of the characters in the book does.
I like how, when Mr. Lynn gives Polly a book of fairy tales, she's unimpressed, though he promises that each story "has a true, strange fact hidden in it, you know, which you can find if you look" (p 177).
And sure enough, if you persevere to the end, and you are lucky enough to be reading the version with the essay by Jones printed at the back, you learn that she really did construct the story in an extremely deliberate way, and there’s a reason it feels like everything is falling into place as you near the climax, even if you have no idea what those things are or what places they are falling into.
That’s the only reason I’d hesitate to classify Fire and Hemlock as magical realism, although it has more in common with that genre than it does with Harry Potter, His Dark Materials, etc.Diana Wynne Jones and I really clicked with this book.
Or is something more sinister at work?Remembering, she uncovers a bizarre network of plots and influence that all seems to center on "That House" where she saw the funeral, and the wealthy and strange family that inhabits it.This is an ambitious and complicated book, and by far the darkest I've read by Jones, as she brings the Tam Lin legend into 1980's Britain.
Or even that the girl herself wouldn't smell a rat.I can, in fact, imagine a much more sinister story happening behind this one, in which there's an entirely different reason why Polly's lost her memory!The climax is problematic because giant battles with magic are just hard to dramatize.
This book means so much to me.
Firstly, it reminds me of a time when I used to read in the dark - I won this as a speech night prize and proceeded to demolish it in the next one and a half hours until we were safely home.
My yearly ritual of re-reading always revealed a new side of this book to me - it's as if Fire and Hemlock is some sort of Labyrinth, and the more you age, the deeper you go - the more you discover about the characters, and, dare I say it - yourself.
However, the first time I read this, probably at around age nine or ten, I was monumentally confused by everything about the plot, though everything else about the book was good enough to make up for it.
After a while I got sick of all this re-reading and still not understanding so I made a conscious decision for this book to not be my favourite any more and I didn't read it for a few years.But then when I re-read it just recently, things were much clearer!
I still love this book.
I am pathologically unable to not love this book.
I know these five dates aren't all the times I've read this.
I love this book.
It launched a love affair with Tam Lin and Thomas the Rhymer, and taught me everything I need to know about romance (have you ever looked at a naked back?
I don't actually have enough words for this book and the ways I love it and the ways it is brilliant, but I am so glad it exists.
You cannot beat a bit of Diana Wynne Jones for Magical Magic realism. On reading this, much like the heroine Polly in the opening chapter, I had the weird feeling I had read the book before. Then as it continued and it got to the Nowhere vases and the story about Mr Piper, I KNEW I had read it before and loved it. The writing is just stunning and more and more dreamlike as the story progresses. I had an inkling from memory of how it ended, and was right.
The best fantasy I've read in some time. I was absolutely captivated. The characters she's created, the world, the plot--it all weaves together in a truly wonderful piece of fiction. The novel tells the story of Polly, who slowly pieces together the clues of her missing memory. Her friendship with the strange Mr. Lynn feels absolutely true, from their "let's pretend" games to his comments on her writing. PERFECTION.
“I don’t think I will get married,” Polly said as she stood up. “I’m going to train to be a hero instead.”  Fire and Hemlock is filled with mystery and suspense, I couldn't help but get absolutely absorbed into it. The plot is so intricate and multilayered that it is sometimes hard to keep up with which things relate to one another. But it is wholly worth catching all the details.One side of the story focuses on Polly's fantasies and stories which she invents with her friend Mr Thomas Lynn, and
I think it is always nice to read about characters who enjoy reading and stories as much as oneself does - that made Polly a great character to read about.
For better or for worse, romance plays an important role in this novel, even though it only shows towards the end.
Polly's story starts with her as a 10-year-old and although her affections grow gradually over the years, I must say that, despite thinking of them as a cute couple, the age difference is really borderline in what I find acceptable.
He's a bit formless to me, if only because for a great deal of the book he's this older character who is kind and plays along with Polly, and you don't really get to see inside him, except for these small flashes that make you go "There you are."The book mainly deals with Polly growing up, the situation with her family, and this curious friendship she has with Tom--a friendship threatened by another family who are not quite normal, and who make frightening threats that, even more frighteningly, come true in some way.
It was nice to read it on Kindle and be able to mark passages as I go (that helps me absorb a text I find) and loved the Garth Nix intro and especially the transcript of a DWJ speech about heroic journeys and writing F&H.I remember this as being the catalyst that set me off to find out more about Thomas the Rhymer and Tam Lin, so it was very interesting to read it nearly 20 years later and from the other side, with the ballads well established in my head.
Toegegeven, ik was al iets ouder dan het doelpubliek toen ik dit boek voor het eerst las, maar ik vond het fantastisch.
Zodanig fantastisch dat ik het terugbracht naar de bibliotheek, het vervolgens kocht en het dan nog eens twee keer las.En blijkbaar moet de indruk toch wel gebleven zijn, want nu, een dikke tien jaar later, was de drang om het nog eens te lezen ontzettend groot.
Het is een jeugdfantasieboek, maar het blinkt uit in originaliteit.
Want voor een jeugdboek is dit echt wel een complex en gelaagd boek.Ik plan mijn volgende leesbeurt over tien jaar alvast maar in mijn agenda.
I'm not sure how many times I've read this now—somewhere in the neighborhood of four or five, I think. It's so rich and mesmerizing every time, and I always notice something new. This time through I read the version that includes Garth Nix's introduction and DWJ's essay "The Heroic Ideal"—it was fascinating to read about her inspirations and how she structured the novel, and to hear her take on the ending, which has always mystified me a bit, though I understand it more with each successive read. Still madly in love with this multilayered, exquisite, profound, beautiful novel. 💚
