https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1626900.Two_Or_Three_Graces
Nu cred că e cazul, ci mai degrabă aș bănui o încercare a lui Huxley de a-și face autocritica: intelectualul englez de la începutul secolului 20, cercurile ”înalte” pe care le frecventează, toate ”pseudo-problemele” de care boemii Londrei ”suferă”, totul pentru a ascunde un gol imens, un gol de care suferă însuși povestitorul - cel care, în definitiv, a acordat atât de multă atenție și analiză unor episoade amoroase, la care a luat parte, așa cum el însuși declară, din postura unchiului Pandarus.E o scriere lejeră, ce nu pretinde mult timp sau efort, o companie plăcută pentru o dupămasă liniștită de duminică!
'Two or three graces' is a writing experiment.
Unbalanced; the author bounces between (character) anatomization and ignorance or superficial depiction.
Sometimes you 'read' a character vivisection interlaced with poorly described action.
However, Huxley succeeded to create some pretty literary artifices: behavior anticipation due to character reprezentation; a (super)thorough (psychological, moral, physical) portrait for the main character; emphases on key words or key human traits - helpful for main idea understanding.
Not a re-readable work; though I think it is worth it for the sake of experiment.
(There's a very subtle link between Huxley's Grace(s) and Eliade's story 'Three Graces'.

The characters ...they are so childish...they are strong characters, meaning they really are quite something. I think Huxley's intention was to create an absurd piece. The characters are ignorant, everyone in his way. It's quite fun to read this. When you think the main character was surrounding itself with people like that it's quite funny how boring and bored he was.
My poor translated copy contains only one of the 4 stories (Two or three graces), but that's enough because it's got nothing spectacular. There's probably a reason why this is one of Huxley's obscure writings.
Cat de bine ar fi daca muzica destinelor noastre s-ar putea asemana cu aceasta.
Funny montage of landed bigots.
