https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/980524.The_War_Chief
23rd book read in 2015.Number 253 out of 451 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dAQPI...
A white boy raised as an Apache. The story has been done quite a few times but this is a good one. Lots of action and adventure. I'm sometimes amazed at how well ERB could shift between an alien planet like Barsoom and an old West tale. The key is his constant focus on adventure.
I may agree with those choices, but that is not the point.Burroughs wrote a letter in which he says that it is Shaz-Dijiji's white blood (red or blue, surely) that prompts his higher nature.
Indeed, Burroughs referred to Shaz-Dijiji as an Apache Tarzan in his correspondence about this book.
Sure, this is about Apaches in the Southwest, but most of the clichés that apply to the Tarzan, Barsoom, and Pellucidar books are here.Spoiler in the rest of this paragraph: Perhaps the most inexcusable plotting shift comes with the death of Shaz-Dijiju's girlfriend.
The first girlfriend, a better mate for Shaz-Dijiju, surely, was sacrificed for a Burroughs cliché.
Good to see Burroughs trying to write "well" for once. Sadly the book lacks his usual flights of fancy and the story, which is more a series of vignettes anyway, gets bogged down with far too many non-English, allegedly Apache, words.
Good historical book. I dont think he wrote many western novels. This one is good I can recommend it to anyone.
It is formulaic, but I like the forumula.
One of Burroughs better novels. The inherent racism of the day is evident, but he treats the Indians with great sympathy. Whether accurate or not, I cannot say, but it is a darned good read.
Not a page-turner like some of ERB's other works, and also sad . The sequel, Apache Devil, is a bit better, except for the ending.
Enjoyed this more than I expected. Burroughs is far superior to his fellow pulp writers despite constantly repeating the theme of the innocent thrust into unfamiliar settings.
The best of Burroughs books. He almost transcends his racism, but in any case does view the plight of Native Americans in the Old West with more sympathy than his contemporaries usualy did.
Another great fast paced action book by Burroughs. You always get caught up in these and swept along. recommended
read some time in 1984
Great book, good read, looking forward to book 2 in the series.
