https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/447212.The_Outfit
PLOT SUMMARY:Note: If you haven’t read the first two parker novels, you should really start with The Hunter and The Man With the Getaway Face as events from those two stories form the foundation for much of this story.In this third installment of the series, a seriously misguided member of the Outfit (i.e., the mob, organized crime, the Commission, etc.) sends a hitman to cap Parker.
All the while Parker engages in his one man beat down against the Outfit leading to a final confrontation with its head, Arthur Branson.Anyone want to guess who comes out on top?THOUGHTS:I love these novels to the point of being a bit clingy.
You'll need to read the previous two books in order to fully enjoy this one ...Parker is one of a ki
After a hit man tries to kill Parker while he's in bed with a ladyfriend, Parker decides it's time to settle his score with The Outfit once and for all.
While his various criminal acquaintances begin hitting Outfit-owned targets, Parker makes plans to take out the head of the Outfit.
But will even taking out the top guy get the Outfit off his back?As usual, Stark delivers the goods in fast-paced, stripped down style.
Parker and Handy do what they do best.
The plotting and action, as always, were top notch.
I'd been searching for a good series of popcorn books that I can read quickly without a whole lot of brainpower when I'm in that mood, or when I'm working and have little time to read.
This was probably the most exciting of the three Parker books I've read so far, as Parker sets off a powder keg of crime, with him and his associates dedicated to pulling off a crippling number of Outfit robberies all over the country.
When The Outfit tries to kill Parker, in bed with a woman, he decides he needs to “settle things,” which for you and me might mean having a heart-to-heart talk with someone.
Maybe we’ll work together again some day.So for Parker “settling things” means setting up a nation-wide series of more than twenty hits on various Outfit concerns, with a final plan to kill Branson, the Big Boss of the organization.
Parker, as I said, a loner, connects withhold pal Handy, who had wanted to retire and open a restaurant in Maine.
But if Parker gets what he wants, can Handy really retire?!!
When The Outfit sets its sights on Parker it doesn't count on the fact that men like Parker, the "independent contractors" of the underworld are, in their own way, legion.
The powers that be as well as the cogs and drones who comprise the myriad operations under the purview of The Outfit are soft targets, heretofore left alone out of a sort of professional courtesy.
Stark/Westlake gives each a slightly different style; following a dime from the pocket of a corner-store gambler to the bottom of a freshly-looted safe, giving the ins and outs of the worst day of a horse track lay-off man's career.
When he recruits Handy McKay to join him on his attempt to get to the top Outfit man, Parker offers money and a chance at picking up more along the way.
When McKay indicates that he doesn’t really care about the money, that he’s going along because of their relationship, Parker is baffled and uncomfortable about it.
And then to rub in my shame goodreads goes and makes a new section on our profile pages where our favorite books are shown, and this is one of them, sitting right there in between Gravity's Rainbow and Infinite Jest.
Wasn't it enough to have a section in your profile you could list favorite books if you were so inclined.
But I'm a very razor thin bit happier with my empty shelf than feeling forced to either display favorites that they pick or wasting my precious time that could be better spent writing about not wanting to waste my time and picking books to show off there.
Heists are fun to read about and watch in movies.
and parker capitalizes on this: he understands that the Outfit might be thousands-strong with millions of dollars and unlimited political connections, but he also realizes that they're mired down in bureaucracy and red tape and have turned slow and soft.
and this worries parker: once a guy doesn't feel that urgency he, like the Outfit, gets soft and lazy and slow.
parker ain't soft.
The first one after a job ought to be a good one, like Bett, not a pig from Scranton."and i've gotta see this movie (robert duvall as the parker character!
The first is a terse, tense revenge thriller; the next is a book creating the true Parker formula, where our uber-professional thief gets a job and works on it, taking out every irritation as it comes; whilst the third is an odd combination of the two.
So once again we get a Parker who isn’t quite the impersonal, swag focused ultra-professional thief of the later books, although he is here actually ultra-professional and focused on a specific task – it’s just that the end of the job isn’t simply about money.
It’s an interesting amalgamation of the first two novels and Stark/Westlake blends them together marvellously.The most interesting part of the book though, is a sustained and brilliant exercise in world building.
Don't look for the philosophical take Parker has on life.
Mostly he's good if he steals enough to live well.Of course the fact that the Outfit has a problem with Parker and wants him dead is putting a cramp in his plans...so he has to kill the people in charge and make a deal with the people who'll take over.As noted the book was a relief.
The action here makes sure you don't get bored.So, straight forward action thriller, done well.
If you're looking for some mental junk food charged with adrenalin this may be it.
A friend suggested a book to me called The Outfit back in January which I went out and purchased.
Well, actually, I bought the wrong one by Richard Stark which is a fictional novel as opposed to the one my friend meant which was by Gus Russo and is a non-fictional history of the Mob. I will go and grab the Russo book, but in the meantime, the Stark one was pretty fun.
Apparently, Stark passed away in 2008 after writing about 24 books featuring the main character Parker.
I liked the flow as well as the descriptions of the characters and mob operations.
When Parker and the Outfit had a dispute in the first book of the series, Parker warned them what price they would pay if they did not leave him alone.
Book #3 opens with someone trying to kill him in bed with his current fling, and Parker had had enough, wresting the names of the people who arranged the hit.
He writes or visits many of the people he has worked robberies with, and encourages them to rob the underprotected businesses of the Outfit to make them pay.
I thought there was too much focus on rip-offs and not enough on Parker.
I've lost count of how many times I've listened to this and other Parker books. He's always with me. It's been MONTHS, and I'm still obsessed.
Most of them do not involve Parker but are very well described and fun to read.
The the latter party still has its interests in some monetary endeavors concerning the Outfit and see their chances or motivation through Parkers' attempts to motivate them to strike at the Outfit.
Being not organized makes them far better at striking against the outfit.
Any organisation will adapt to the society it works in and Parker does not have any societal restrictions.A great book that leaves you wanting more Parker novels, as most of his tales have yet to be read by me.
Parker had gotten a face lift to disguise himself from the Outfit.
Word was out now, though they didn't know what he looked like.
When someone fingers him and a hit man is sent, he decides it's tme to do something about it.He heads north from Florida, visiting people along the way he'd worked with in the past.
He asked all if they had plans to hit outfit(they all idly thought about such jobs).
As a professional courtesy, they left such hits alone.But the outfit, Bronson in particular, was starting to get annoying.
Before it was over, a million had been taken.Then Parker went after Bronson.
My edition was a download from the library produced by Audio Go, read by John Chancer. It's about 300 minutes long & fantastic, again. Occasionally the job setups dragged a bit, came across as pedantic, but they were interesting for all that. As usual, Parker's acquaintances cause him issues, but this time they helped out, too. Great idea & very well done.A thread from the beginning leads me in to the next book, too. On to read the next, The Mourner. I just have to know...

(That was probably a cliche even in 1963, when the novel was written.) On the criminal side of things, the Outfit, in Parker's rogue wolf eyes, has gotten soft.
But Parker novels are not meant to be statements, and are usually believable (to some extent) due to the nitty gritty details of the criminal life that populate each outing.
That said, it still didn't work great for me.Still, there are plenty of those nitty gritty details present, depite how the overarching conflict between Parker and the Outfit cuts against them.
The Outfit is one of those novels where the parts are better than the whole.

3.5 - Good entry into this series! Parker is such a great character to read about. And by great, I mean ridiculous. He's crazy. And will do literally anything he has to. I'm happy to root for him, though, and happy with how the story went in this one.
Stark's Parker enlists the aid of other undesirables to even the score with the crime syndicate The Outfit.
Parker makes the Outfit sorry it ever tangled with him.I’m enjoying these stories and find myself wanting to read one right after the other.
It’s better to read the first three books in order because they have a flow.
In book 2 Parker gets facial plastic surgery so the Outfit can’t find him.
In book 3 the Outfit knows about Parker’s surgery, so Parker takes action.THE SERIES:If you are new to the series, I suggest reading the first three and then choose among the rest.
The rest can be read as stand alones.The first three books in order:								4 stars.
The Outfit.Read these two in order:5 stars.
Third in the Parker series. Parker went to all the trouble to get a new face that was revealed in book 2, but finds by the end of that book that his new appearance has been revealed anyway and the "Outfit," (Organized Crime) is out to kill him. Parker strikes back as only he can do. Good one!
“When the woman screamed, Parker awoke and rolled off the bed.”
I enjoyed The Outfit, but its plot was overly simplistic and a bit boring.
Everything seemed to come a little too easily to Parker.
The protagonist should struggle a bit so that the final victory is sweet.
There is precious little struggle here, and therefore precious little suspense or drama.And I feel like Parker leaves a heck of a lot of evidence of his crimes laying around.
He commits a murder with five witnesses, he writes letters to all sorts of people asking them to commit crimes against the Outfit, he’s like the Johnny Appleseed of spreading evidence.
Rounds out the unofficial trilogy quite nicely.Keen to see what comes next.
The quest to complete the Parker canon is very fun and extremely addicting.The Outfit was a blast.
Parker is looking to tie up some loose ends with the Outfit and hit them right where it hurts.
Right from the start one realizes the Outfit still has plans for Parker and after that it's off to the races.
Steeping into Parker's mind through Stark's narration is a welcomed feature to the Parker books.
It's fun to experience the different personalities of these two badasses.I cannot wait to complete the series.
Keep the books a'coming.
What is it that makes us (me) find the bad guy so intriguing?
Why do we root for Parker?
Parker, our favorite bad guy, is annoyed after the syndicate hires a hitman to take him out.
Parker had stolen back some money he was owed and the "outfit" was pissed.
He does so by enlisting his friends, suggesting that now is the time to pull off the heists they've always wanted to against syndicate establishments, but never could for fear of retribution by the "outfit." It's little guys against the soft and unwary big guys.Good fast read by Richard Stark aka Donald Westlake.

