https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/349990.The_Gift
Mostly, they are compulsory.After introducing his subject, Mauss considers the phenomenon of “potlatch”, the practice of large-scale, competitive giving.
My grandchildren’s school, for example, was forced actively to discourage the practice of the children giving Christmas gifts to their teachers.
Moreover, competition between parents and children is rarely an issue.Reciprocity, it seems to me, infuses every aspect of our ordinary social lives.
All of these are at the heart of the phenomenon we know as the gift which Mauss brought into general anthropological discussion.
A sore neck swiftly follows as you constantly move backwards and forwards between the text and the notes at the back -ping-pong-ping-pong-ping-pong.
In this case, a sore neck inflames into chronic whiplash as Mauss scatters text notes like confetti.
Finally, the endnotes here are themselves of an Infinite Jest proportion.And then there's the text itself which trips over itself, degenerating into a word salad halfway through the first chapter.
The Gift belongs to the desiccated supercalifragilisticexpialidocious school of writing or maybe it was just the translator...
In fact, if you can’t read the book, Douglas’ introduction stands by itself as a wonderful summary of Mauss’ ideas.For those interested in the history of anthropology and its development over time, Mauss was one of Durkheim’s greatest students (Durkheim was also Mauss’ uncle) and his influence can be seen quite a bit in this work.
Durkheim’s positivism is also on display; Mauss never feels his point is made unless he has shown it several times over with people from different parts of the world.The main idea here is the centrality of what Mauss calls the “gift.” What is a gift?
Dans Le Don, Marcel Mauss présente la thèse basée en grande partie sur l'étude de Bronislaw Malinowski The Argonauts of the Western Pacific selon laquelle le don réciproque est un élément clé de la société humaine.
Ce qui est dérangeant est que Mauss critique Malinowski séverement pour ne pas avoir tiré les mêmes conclusions que lui de ses recherches.
Malinowksi avait décrit les voyages de Kùla entrepris sur une base périodique par les insulaires des iles Trobriand en Océanie visitaient d'autres îles.
Il dit seulement, que le Kùla avait un lien avec les croyances magiques des Trobriandais.Mauss a proposé une système de devoir tripartite pour expliquer le phènomene.
Detailed examples from ancient cultures around the world demonstrate the universal importance of customs surrounding giving.
The fundamental take away for me, nearly 30 years later, is how little each of us still reflects on the importance of giving, even token or symbolic giving, in keeping the social fabric intact.
In the US, as we continue the trajectory of insulating and isolating ourselves through technology and through urban planning that forces us to use private vehicles for transportation, the social fabric continues to unravel, making each of us lonelier and robbing us of the vitality we can so easily give each other.
Mauss describes gift giving in the context of Melanesian, Polynesian, and Northwest Coast Indian contexts.
For Mauss, gift-giving is the keystone element of social cohesion in non-capitalist societies.
Mauss attempts to break down an institution that he considers to represent a "total social phenomenon", that is it to say that it affects political, economic, religious, and ethical aspects of society.
It puts individuals in society into each others debt, which in turn, strengthens social solidarity and group cohesion.
His argument is also evolutionary in that he argues that gift-debt are what led to pre-capitalist economies in Rome, Germany, India, and China.
Et pourquoi donc faisons nous (devons-nous faire) des cadeaux à nos proches à certains moments de l'année ?
noël, anniversaires, fêtes des mères, des pères, maintenant la fête des grands mères...Cet essai cherche a l'expliquer en décrivant les comportements de sociétés anciennes et isolées.
Il rapporte les rites du potlatch, pendant lesquels on s'échange des objets, que l'on détruisait à la fin de la fête.
Il apporte ainsi un éclairage à nos comportements de consommateurs modernes.L'auteur montre qu'offrir, c'est plus que le classique "faire plaisir", un moyen d'installer un lien de dépendance, de subordination, une relation créancier/débiteur et imposer une dette d'amour.Des idées provocantes difficiles à partager avec son entourage au moment des orgies de cadeaux de noël et autres fêtes.
Systematic, concise and well researched, Mauss' treatise on reciprocity is a must read for anyone interested in the anthropology or viability of the non-market economy. He details the methods of exchange in the indigenous societies of Melanesia, Polynesia, and the Pacific Northwest, and concludes with its relation to the sociological study of altruism. Giving, according to Mauss is not a strictly selfless behavior, but rather we give to receive, whether directly from the giftee or the universe/society (God).
I understand why so many people like this book now because its incredibly useful for understanding the everyday unconscious issue of receiving gifts, charity and the hurt ego that follows. Its also fascinating to counter-pose his understanding of value, circulation, money, and commodity-fetishism, with Marx's understanding of these phenomena. Like any young person trying to enter the academy I've already thought of a few essay ideas that I can write based on a few observations from this book.
A seasonal reading. Mauss draws on contemporary anthropological data and some historical legal material to conclude there is no such thing as a pure gift, and that this is not a bad thing. Interesting implications for charitable giving.
Informative book that tells you how the concept of money got started. Before Rome, there was trade and an honor code. After Rome, there was money. So much for good faith. It all became about "show me the money, dawg."
Read intro and conclusion, which are excellent, pretty boring in the middle.
This was really dry. The societies covered were a little TOO archaic for me.
hình thức biếu tặng có thể mang lại một xã hội dung hoà, nhưng đôi khi mình thấy nó không tích cực vì hình thức này luôn tạo ra một tư duy có điều kiện.
Ale v podstate je to z veľkej časti hlavne popis toho, akým spôsobom prebieha výmena tovaru v "primitívnych" kultúrach, čo všetko je s tým späté a že niečo také, ako dobrovoľný dar, v minulosti neexistovalo.
Teda že darom sa človek zaväzuje a tým, že dar človek prijíma, tak záväzok prijíma.
V podstate nič neznáme našej dobe, no len tak z prvej si to človek neuvedomuje.Hlavná myšlienka knihy?
Že aj keď dar vyzerá na prvý pohľad ako dobrovoľný, v podstate je povinný a musí byť opätovaný.
Ale opäť si to prehoďme na dnešnú dobu, napríklad veľké svadby a okázalá snaha o to, aby to všetko vyzeralo, že sme na tom dobre a opak by bol hanbou.
Such examples clarify his ideas, support his arguments, and, moreover, are quite interesting in themselves.I was suprised and delighted by Mauss's frequent linguistic arguments.
It made me appreciate how language and social custom evolve over time.Towards the end of the essay, Mauss spends a while analyzing what these archaic customs say about modern society.
I would rate this e-book just two stars: Don't bother.Another problem is that Mauss does not provide enough context in the text for the reader to be able to understand his examples.
Pros: The book itself is a fascinating look at some cultures that don't get a whole lot of love: the Pacific islands, Melanesia, and Northeast Asia and Northwest America.
The subject of the gift was fascinating, I was drawn into the descriptions, and it made me reflect deeply on the nature of "giving" in my own society/life.
What does giving mean in my culture?
The author also throws around words in a dozen obscure languages and assumes that the reader will pick up.
The author apparently assumes a working knowledge of ancient Roman legal terms, because that section was almost unreadable.
Although short, it is not the easiest read since there are a lot of arcane foreign words to keep track of.
In fact, based on quotes like the one below, I've decided to skip the historian Niall Ferguson's account and read about the history of money as seen from an anthropologist's viewpoint.
On the one hand, barter has arisen through a system of presents given and reciprocated according to a time limit.
This was through a process of simplification, by reductions in periods of time formerly arbitrary."
In this expanded edition of Marcel Mauss seminal work, Jane I.
Guyer's translation and annotations provide important contributions to the restoration of Mauss' original framework.
Mauss' Essay on the Gift, in this book presented alongside his accounts and reviews of his contemporaries, has been highly influential, but also much misinterpreted, in the social sciences.
Guyer's attentiveness to language and context presents this English version in new light.
The essay is an exploration of gift exchanges in relation to social integration and reciprocity, and Mauss' central argument is the binding relations created through processes of gift giving, receiving and reciprocating.
Finished it in a day. I don't know if it was because I am fascinated by anthropology or because it's a rather easy read. Mauss explains his perspective of the gift thoroughly and it felt as a university lecture.
I found the premise of this interesting, but ultimately found the style quite oppressive. I may need to return to this as I find the subject of obligatory status based gift exchange extremely interesting, and the potential links into charity are fascinating.
A friend recommended this book to me after I published The Mind Share Market. Since ancient societies people have used informal barter systems, highlighting that regardless of the specific culture there is a sense of moral transactions.
I had to read this for a PhD discussion seminar, didn't see the point of it. I still don't understand why it is praised as one of the most prolific pieces of anthropological work. Which to be fair is my stance on anthropology as a whole.
Nada que mencionar sobre el ya conocido prestigio de esta obra. Personalmente, me gustan sus descripciones que combinan de forma fluida la ambientación etnográfica con el análisis antropológico-sociológico.
I needed to read this for a religion class, and I definitely marathoned this because I have to have a discussion about it tomorrow, but it was interesting enough.
very deep philosophical work written with such lucidity, throwing light at the moral fabric of our societies based the ordinary theme"gift".
dar algo é uma obrigação ou um agrado?devastador e lindo.
“There is no such thing as a free lunch” is an economic theory that the modern world functions upon, while “There is no such thing as a free gift” is how archaic societies have lived according to Mauss’ "Essai Sur le Don: Forme et Raison de l’Échange dans les Sociétés Archaïques" or simply "The Gift," which is written under the influence of Malinowski’s Argonauts of the Western Pacific, and is Mauss’ way to fight against capitalism and utilitarianism, by reading this economic phenomenon of gift-exchange in the language of sociological practice.In less than a hundred pages, Mauss uses his knowledge of Sanskrit languages to bring into ethnography the economic principles of many primitive societies focusing on the obligation of reciprocity in order to theorize that no gift is free-gift.
An interesting book, if a dense one. If you're an anthropology student in any capacity I would highly recommend this one, but give it the time it deserves; it's a deceptively long book. The actual layout of my copy was abysmal. You need to do this weird, carpal tunnel inducing pose with your hand in order to access the notes, and you're going to need to consult them. A good read, but by no means a pleasant one.
I may think that many people with long life expectancies extend their lifespans for no actual purpose because they don't actually live, but eugenics is ridiculous to me because I think children have a great deal of potential.
Anyway, while Garrett Hardin's critique that individual selfishness through prevailing over communal needs so that common ownership is inevitably disastrous must be recognized, I must say I think it is total bollocks because private ownership destroys resources and promotes inequality anyway.
I think the problem is not in whether the resources are shared or not, but the lack of regulation and concern about destroying property.
