https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125191.Song_of_the_Swallows
A beautiful story about a family that honors the swallows in a village in Latin America. They love watching the birds grow and learn to fly and are sad when they fly away. They rejoice when the birds return.The book is about living in harmony with nature and loving our surroundings and the things that make life beautiful. Several pages had a lot of text in this. The illustrations were beautiful.The kids are starting to rate books now that my niece is in a summer reading program and they gave this a 2. They thought it was ok.
This lovely picture book tells the story of the Swallows of Capistrano, who return each year on St Joseph’s Day, to build their nests and have new chicks.
Juan is a boy who loves to wander the gardens of the mission, who are tended by Julian.
Helping Julian in the gardens, and watching his beloved swallows, Juan learns about nature and the cycle of life.
Julian also tells him a little of the history of the Spanish missionaries who built the mission with the help of the native people, and in return taught the Indians several skills, such as making shoes, or milling grain.
This is a sweet tale about the migratory patterns of the swallows who come to Capistrano every spring on Saint Joseph's Day (right near the Vernal Equinox) to make their nests and have babies.
It's a touching story and the illustrations are nice, too.
Although the tale was published more than sixty years ago, it doesn't feel out of date.
A timeless tale to celebrate the coming of Spring and the swallows.
This book was selected as one of the books for the July 2014 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Caldecott Medal, 1950Art Media: Tempera Favorite illustration: pages 11-12Favorite line: "The swallows were very much like little folks who had been on a long journey and were happy to be home again."
While it wasn't a story that necessarily "wowed" me as I was reading it, I have found myself thinking of it fondly throughout the day, it having touched both my heart (the friendship between the boy and the older man, the gentle earnestness of Juan as he became more and more interested in the swallows, eventually wanting to help make them at home in his own yard) and my mind (the phenomenon of the swallows returning on the same day every year, and the (to my mind, anyway) sensitive portrayal of Hispanic-Americans).
Summary and Critique:Song of the Swallows, a children’s picture book written in 1948 features an eloquent story line with strong Hispanic ties.
The book demonstrates a unique, missionary culture, containing beautiful architecture and gardens.
The majority of the illustrations in this book are muted in color and while they are well drawn, they are not particularly interesting and draw little attention.
Three times, the book features full page illustrations, vividly colored and highly detailed.
Another unique feature of this book was the addition of song lyrics and sheet music about the swallows.
On the inside cover of this book reads " To my dear friend Cissy with all best wishes from Juan and me- Leo Politi 1965.
My aunt was 10 years old when Mr. Politi signed her book and he included a picture of a swallow with the inscription.
Because my aunt is my daughter's namesake and passed away at 22 years of age, anything that belonged to her is incredibly special to me.
It has been sitting on my shelf for years and my dear friend Jeana picked it up and brought it back to life for me.
1950 Caldecott Medal.
Favorite Illustration: When Juan and Julian are feeding the pigeons in the mission garden.Every day on the way to and from school, Juan stops at the mission at Capistrano to visit with the gardener and see the birds.
His favorites are the swallows.This is another charming story by Leo Politi featuring the Latino history and culture of Southern California.
I enjoyed this one more than the other two I've read: Juanita and Pedro The Angel Of Olvera Street.
I thought the faith of Juan that the birds would return and the simple lessons taught by the gardener were simple and sweet.
This is another book where the illustrations really got my attention and the text really did not.
What I did like was the artist’s use of bright springtime colors and the fact that the music for the songs Juan and the other kids sing is included right in the book.
I also think it’s important to have books like this, that teach children about other cultures and the feasts and events that are significant to those cultures.
This book isn’t especially dated and could still be relevant today.
This little book is one I would have enjoyed in our earlier days of homeschooling. Here is a story with history, science, language, art... so much to offer. The music is included with the songs that tell about the swallows returning to Capistrano. The tale has strong Hispanic elements, and even some words in Spanish introduced gently with the translation. There's talk about birds, about gardens, nesting habits...I loved this. Especially how everything linked through the boy and the gardener. I'm happy I stumbled on this one in my Caldecott reading!
A great educational book for your children over the preschool age. My 6 yr old loved it. Lots of good information with beautiful pictures that will help keep children engaged. A great addition to any children's library.
The portions about the swallows were nice enough as were the illustrations.
It feels a bit inaccurate to say that the mission helped the natives in any way.
The whole point was to convert the natives into good, tax-paying Spanish citizens.
What is a bit fascinating, is that this book was written right around the end of some of the major restoration work done on the mission.
So, the book itself is a bit historical at this point.
I have to ding it a bit for it's lack of perspective, but, if you can ignore the portions dealing with natives the storyline about the swallows is cute enough.
Multicultural Literature
Genre: Multi-cultural/ Realistic FictionAward: Caldecott MedalLexile: 620 Grade Level: 3.5Summary:This book is about named Juan who finds an attachment to these particular birds called swallows.
Prompt Questions:What do you think this story will be about?Where does this story take place?What do you infer about the culture?Who are our main characters in the story?How would you describe the Mission?Why do you think the swallows are making so much noise?How would you describe Juan's feelings towards the swallows?Do you sing or listen to songs that make you think of someone or something you miss?Do you think the swallows will return?What do you the the black dots that Juan sees?Critique: This book was incredibly sweet.
Written and illustrated by Leo Politi, Song of the Swallows is the story of a young boy from Capistrano, California, a mission village, and the swallows he loves who live there in the Spring.
The two’s friendship centers on the swallows that live in the mission, and the illustration reflects the importance of the swallows.
When the swallows return, so does the color, reflecting the joy of the villagers that the birds they love have returned.
Politi uses tones of pink on each page, which I interpret as an illustration of the hope the swallows bring Juan, even in their absence.
Julian introduces young Juan to the warm beauty of the scenes in the skies above as the swallows leave and return to San Juan Capistrano, in tandem with the changing seasons.
What he really wants is to experience the love and friendship of the beautiful swallows for himself, and he gets his wish in an unforgettable way during the waning moments of St. Joseph's day when the swallows return to their home and bring cheer back to the gardens of San Juan Capistrano.
I often find myself a bit disappointed with older Caldecott Medal winners.
Modern Caldecott winners tend to use the entire page for art, rather than a bit over half, as in this book.
So much of the book is whitespace, and, while this makes sense for the publishing challenges of its day, it's not as appealing now.This book has a LOT of text, though most of it is fairly simple.
Which puts me off, a bit, since I feel like one of the cool parts of learning to read is coming back to old books and reading them on your own.And, got to be honest, religious issues are a thing with me.
Very meh.
Written and illustrated by Leo Politi, Song of the Swallows won the 1950 Caldecott Medal.
Although, it’s not a chapter book, there are multiple paragraphs of text on most pages.I do think the text is too heavy for a kindergartener, but it would work well for early elementary.
The muted artwork provides a good balance to the heavy passages of text without being too distracting.
Each page is illustrated with images of the Juan, Julian, and the mesmerizing swallows, adding to the readers’ experience with the story.
A Song of the Swallows is a great tool to teach young children about other cultures in literature.
This book then goes on to show the friendship between the two, and the curiosity and amusement that Juan has with the beautiful swallows that seem to be in the hundreds that hang around near the Mission.
I liked this book and the illustrations a lot.
While I liked the variation between dark and vibrant colors, the story felt drawn out.
I felt myself getting disconnected in the end only because I felt that the story was going on a long time.
Although the story felt long, the illustrations were great.
Juan is fascinated by the swallows that fill the Mission garden in Capistrano, and he becomes even more intrigued when Julian, the mission's elderly bell ringer, tells him about the birds' migration to the South for the winter.
He also reassures the boy that the birds will return next spring.
Juan prepares his own garden in hopes that when the swallows return, they may visit his small house.
finally, with the arrival of spring, the birds also arrive, and he and Julian joyously ring the bells to welcome them back.
Most marvelous of all, two swallows nest near Juan's house.
Song of the Swallows by Politi LeoGenre: picture book, fiction Reading level:K-2 grade Format: goodReading the book Song of the Swallows by Leo Politi I connected as a reader while I was reading this book because I was able to relate how birds are very important to the Hispanic culture. I liked how the book included songs that relates to the text. For example in how the text mentioned the swallows would leave the village in where Juan lived during the winter, but came back during St. Joseph’s Da
Song of the Swallows by Politi LeoGenre:	picture book, fiction 	Reading level:K-2 grade	 Format: goodReading the book Song of the Swallows by Leo Politi I connected as a reader while I was reading this book because I was able to relate how birds are very important to the Hispanic culture.
By having all this detail in the picture illustrations engages the reader more especially if the student is more of a Hispanic heritage because they can relate to how wonderful it feel to be at the village.
This book can be used in the classroom to give the diversity of students a background of the Hispanic culture.
His favorite birds were las golondrinas, the swallows, who came to lay their eggs there every summer.
Juan decides to plant a garden for the swallows when they arrive in the coming year.
On St. Joseph's Day the following year Julian and Juan welcome the swallows back.
The author and illustrator, Leo Politi, brings the story to life and gives us more insight into where Juan lives.
Politi uses mostly primary colors and browns to reflect Mayan culture.
This book is a cultural masterpiece, and that is what Politi is known for.
Julian tells Juan the story of the mission and explains how the Swallows come to the garden every St. Joseph's day.
Juan enjoys listening to Julian's stories, and learns to love gardening and all of the birds as well, especially the swallows.
I like that this book subtly introduces a new culture to it's readers with the story of the mission and the appreciation of the swallows felt in the small Mexican town in California, along with the celebration of St.Josephs day.
The pictures are a lovely addition to the story, and the full two-page spreads incorporated really bring the words to life allowing the reader to fully imagine the town, the garden, and the swallows.
The main plot of the story was about birds always returning to an island around a certain time of the year.
The main character a young boy named Juan wanted to plant a tree so that the birds would come back and live in the tree he planted.The text is complimented extremely well in this book.
There are two pages taken up by a whole garden where it looks like an artist used water color to paint the whole garden.
All throughout the book it seems as if we're looking at the store from the eyes of the birds which are what are being sought after just like the story of the owl in class.
Juan's favorite type of bird in the garden were the swallows which came in the spring on Saint Joseph's Day and left late in the summer.
Juan loved to watch the swallows build their nests and watch the parents teach their babies how to fly.
One year, Juan decided he wanted to guild his own garden in front of his house in hopes the swallows might come there to next when they return in the spring.
When spring eventually came, Juan was exuberant to see that swallows were flitting around his yard, they had come there to nest!
Juan loved the swallows that lived in his town, he would learn something new about them every day.
When the swallows returned the entire town was filled with joy and Juan was the happiest he had ever been.
The illustrator emphasized creating the setting for the reader with two pages filled with a detailed drawing of the church and village but, throughout the rest of the book the illustrations did not have color or detail.
The literature told the story more than the illustrations in this case.
The book was still a very great read with out as much illustration as other books.
Song of the Swallows is about a young boy named Juan and an elderly man who works at a Mission in Capistrano, California.
I liked this book because the story line was sweet.
I liked how in the illustrations there were some that were big and colorful, and the other pages with the words on them were more neutral colors.
It would be nice for a read aloud book because of the words being on one page and the big picture of the whole scene is on another.
I didn't however really like that there were songs included into the book.
While the book was lengthy, the story was depicted beautifully through the illustrations.
The story is told through the illustrations and the text is used to support the images.
In the text, Juan (the little boy) makes up a song for the swallows and the music score is placed into the book.
Then when the swallows come back, all the children sing a song out of joy.
So, an extension activity would be to teach the students these swallow songs as they appear in the book.
This can teach the children a new song that they may enjoy singing.
When I think about what this book is about, I think of Warner Brothers cartoons, because one of them was sings about "when the swallows come back to Capistrano..." The author wrote many books about the Latino communities in Southern California, including this book.
He likes to talk to his friend Julian the gardener and bell-ringer of the Mission of San Juan Capistrano about the swallows, called los golondrinas in Spanish, who come every year to nest and raise their young.
There are two songs in the book, one the children learned at school (that the author wrote and composed himself) and one they sing when the swallows arrive.
