https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52782.Seize_the_Day
This novel is ripe for classroom discussion and analysis, with carefully crafted metaphors and motifs that seem effortlessly blended into the narrative, similar to the way Dr. Tamkin builds his character mask through ‘hints, made dully as asides, grew by repetition into sensational claims.’ Bursting with insight and frosted in delicious prose, Bellow breaks down the socio-economic conditions of the 50’s,and their implications of the common man through an ostensive examination of Wilhelm Reich’s psychoanalytic theories.Much like Joyce’s masterpiece Ulysses, Seize the Day follows a Jewish protagonist, through the course of one day while simultaneously painting the larger portrait of the character’s life history.
Written in '56, it is still supremely relevant and I bet there are dozens, perhaps thousands, of Tommy Wilhems out there in the world, and they are all MODERN MEN; Wilhem is a man confused and, in the same vein as lame-o Holden C., one very unhappy with his placement in society, while also questioning his duties as a "man." The episode between Wilhem and his father is an example of what is at the center of most of these "The Modern Man Undone" novels (this one reminded me instantly of Nathaniel West's "The Day of the Locust"...
& you know that with a title like "Seize the Day" the plot will be pretty much an ironic one.
If there was ever a character as neurotic as Alexander Portnoy - it was Wilhelm Adler. Following him around for a day in this short but great novella, I laughed and cried. At times, well most of the time, he is pathetic but as in nearly all of Bellow's protagonists, there is a diehard optimism that keeps him going towards self-realization. This book is a breath of fresh air and will bring you a smile. Carpe diem!
Maybe it couldn't be helped.
Whenever at the end of the day be was unusually fatigued be attributed it to cynicism.Tommy Wilhelm is a hopeless dream chaser – all his life he was chasing his romantic dreams but couldn’t catch any.
…he received a suggestion from some remote element in his thoughts that the business of life, the real business – to carry his peculiar burden, to feel shame and impotence, to taste these quelled tears – the only important business, the highest business was being done.
Maybe the making of mistakes expressed the very purpose of his life and the essence of his being here.Shall the meek inherit the earth?
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این داستان، در موردِ مردی چهل ساله، به نامِ <ویلهلم> است.. او دو فرزندِ چهارده ساله و ده ساله دارد، ولی با همسرش اختلاف پیدا کرده است و جدا از یکدیگر زندگی میکنند... ویلهلم برایِ دیدنِ پدرش <دکتر آدلر> به هتلی در هالیوود رفته است که بسیاری از بازنشستگان در آن اقامت دارندویلهلم در این هتل با مردی به نامِ <تامکین> آشنا میشود.. تامکین، خود را پزشکی معرفی میکند که علاوه بر پزشکی، سرمایه گذاری حرفه ای نیز میباشد.. ویلهلم دار و ندارش 700 دلار است که آن را هم به تامکی
ویلهلم برایِ دیدنِ پدرش <دکتر آدلر> به هتلی در هالیوود رفته است که بسیاری از بازنشستگان در آن اقامت دارند‎ویلهلم در این هتل با مردی به نامِ <تامکین> آشنا میشود..
ویلهلم دار و ندارش 700 دلار است که آن را هم به تامکین میدهد و تامکین با پولِ او در بازارِ بورس سهام میخرد‎پدرِ ویلهلم، یعنی دکتر آدلر، مردِ ثروتمندی است که دلِ خوشی از پسرش ویلهلم ندارد، او به تامکین اعتماد ندارد، و هرچه سعی در آگاه کردنِ ویلهلم دارد، او توجهی به پدرش نمیکند..
ویلهلم تنها عضوی از خانواده است که تحصیلاتِ بالایی ندارد و باعثِ خجالتِ پدرش بوده و میباشد‎ویلهلم همراه با تامکین، به بازارِ بورس میرود، و متوجه میشود که سهامش پایین آمده و نزدیک به صفر است..
There is a strikingly pathetic point in Saul Bellow’s novella Seize the Day, when the protagonist Wilhelm (let’s call him Tommy, his Hollywood alias) Adler laments how the latter half of his existence will be occupied by analyzing the failures that occurred in the first half. In the depths of his dour fatalism he opines, “A person can become tired of looking himself over and trying to fix himself up. You can spend the entire second half of your life recovering from the mistakes of your first ha
There is a strikingly pathetic point in Saul Bellow’s novella Seize the Day, when the protagonist Wilhelm (let’s call him Tommy, his Hollywood alias) Adler laments how the latter half of his existence will be occupied by analyzing the failures that occurred in the first half.
You can spend the entire second half of your life recovering from the mistakes of your first half.” This quote is taken from a conversation that Wilhelm has with his father, as he reaches to persuade him that his current failures are seemingly incurable, and that he needs his financial help.
Or you stop looking in mirrors.” ― Tennessee WilliamsBellow's fourth novel, published in 1956, follows sad sack Tommy Wilhelm (real name, Wilky Adler), who is in his mid-40s, lives in a Manhattan residential hotel with his retired dad, separated from his kids and a frigid wife who will not grant him a divorce, unemployed after careering from one spectacularly pitiful failure to another (actor, husband, father, salesman, jackleg).
When no son-complaining, there's plenty of dad-denigrating-son.Wilhelm cannot make a career, reach the American dream or even create yet another personal myth of his life well lived.
I only realized this reflecting on the scenes that stuck with me days and even weeks after reading the novel.
Rubin shares Wilhelm's taste for nice clothes, a small but revealing desire for beautiful but useless things ("It didn't seem necessary--he was behind the counter most of the time--but he dressed very well")."As Wilhelm approached, Rubin did not see him; he was looking out dreamily at the Hotel Ansonia, which was visible from his corner, several blocks away.
This morning it looked like the image of itself reflected in deep water, white and cumulous above, with cavernous distortions underneath.
As in "I am going to sit down to write now, and my sentences will never be as beautiful as Saul Bellow's." Then, at peace with that truth, you can begin to type.
"Light as a locust, a helicopter bringing in mail from Newark Airport to La Guardia sprang over the city in a long leap." Or: "In full tumult the great afternoon current raced for Columbus Circle, where the mouth of midtown stood open and the skyscrapers gave back the yellow fire of the sun." The world outside seems like a place of overwhelming beauty and overwhelming motion.
He is in a state of collapse… in crisis… but here’s the thing, and what I think most people miss, and miss (revealingly) because most people who read literature nowadays in America are relentlessly, immovably, uncomprehendingly, genetically middle-class, unthreatened by catastrophe, held up, even when slumming, by a massive, personal safety net of parents in Westchester, of trusts, of bonds, of… but no, not Wilhelm – Tommy is in REAL crisis… his mother is dead, his father is loveless and will not help, his sister is alienated, his wife is a shit and squeezing him and bleeding him...
Astonishingly powerful novella structured around a day in the life of an actor manqué as he deals with a shrewish ex-wife, an untrustworthy "psychiatrist" who entangles him in the stock market, an icy father who (understandably) has grown tired of helping his middle-aged son out of financial binds, and with assorted feelings of acedia, alienation, and desperation.
The true knockout comes at the end: a conclusion that is as stirring and cathartic as any other that comes to mind at the moment.
Η όλη ιστορία διαδραματίζεται κατά την διάρκεια μιας ημέρας και αφορά έναν αφελή, επιπόλαιο και εν γένει αποτυχημένο σαρανταπεντάρη, τον Τόμι Βίλχελμ, ο οποίος έχει χωρίσει από την γυναίκα του (όντας υποχρεωμένος να πληρώνει διατροφή και τα έξοδα των παιδιών), δεν έχει και τις καλύτερες σχέσεις με τον επιτυχημένο πατέρα του, ενώ μόλις πρόσφατα έχασε και μια αξιοπρεπή δουλειά.
Κατά την διάρκεια της ημέρας αυτής -μιας από τις χειρότερες που είχε την ατυχία να ζήσει-, θα κάνει μια αναδρομή στο παρελθόν, θα ανατρέξει στις αποτυχίες και τις ελάχιστες επιτυχίες του, και θα μπλεχτεί στον φαύλο κύκλο της αυτολύπησης και της μιζέριας.
Κατά την γνώμη μου είναι ένα αρκετά ενδιαφέρον και σημαντικό βιβλίο, που θίγει ορισμένα σοβαρά ζητήματα.

A acção de Agarra o Dia decorre durante um dia, no qual a personagem principal recorda o passado e tenta resolver uns problemas do presente.
Wilhelm deixou a mulher e os dois filhos porque quer ser livre; vai viver para um hotel e, como não tem dinheiro para pagar a conta da hospedagem e a pensão de alimentos à mulher, pede dinheiro ao pai que o manda trabalhar, coisa que ele não quer.
Tenta arranjar dinheiro através de investimentos na bolsa num negócio de toucinho (não sei se percebi bem...).
Além de não ter compreendido a personagem, não achei qualquer interesse nesta história.
یک روز در میانه قرن بیستم، در حوالی برادوی، جایی در میان فضای سنگین، شلوغ و آشفته نیویورک، شهری که خیلیها آن را پایتخت جهان میدانند، میشود فضایی که سال بلو خیلی دوستش داشت: یکی از مهمترین رمانهای برنده نوبل ادبیات 1976، سال بلو، خونسرد با شخصیت رمانش بازی میکند و او را تا مرز جنون میکشاند. ویلهلم، راوی رمان، شخصیت مورد علاقه سال بلو است . مردی میانسال 42ساله یهودی جذاب که زنش مارگارت را رها کرده و حالا به خاطر بزرگ کردن دو فرزندش، که هیچ وقت آنها را نمیتواند ببیند، دارد ذرهذره، هر چه دارد را به
ویلهلم، راوی رمان، شخصیت مورد علاقه سال بلو است .
مردی میانسال 42ساله یهودی جذاب که زنش مارگارت را رها کرده و حالا به خاطر بزرگ کردن دو فرزندش، که هیچ وقت آنها را نمی‌تواند ببیند، دارد ذره‌ذره، هر چه دارد را به زنش می‌دهد.ویلهلم در آستانه فروپاشی است: بدون کار، بدون خانواده، بی‌پدر، بی‌سرمایه، امروز بیدار شده تا نتیجه آخرین قمارش را ببیند، سر 700 دلارش چه خواهد آمد.
قماری غریب، که چه ببرد و چه ببازد، دیگر چیزی نمانده است.
واقعا دیگر هیچ چیزی نمانده است.
Αυτός θα πρέπει να 'ναι ο προορισμός του ανθρώπου [...] Σ'αυτόν τον Ουίλκυ ή Τόμυ Ουίλχελμ, 44 χρόνων, πατέρα δύο γιων, που προς το παρόν ζούσε στο ξενοδοχείο Γκλοριάνα, είχαν αναθέσει να κουβαλάει ένα φορτίο που ήταν ο εαυτός του, ο χαρακτηριστικός εαυτός του.
Που χρειάζεται να πιστεύει ότι μπορεί να μάθει γιατί υπάρχει.
Αν κ ποτε δεν προσπάθησε στα σοβαρα να το μάθει".Ότι χρειάζεται να ξέρει κανείς για τον ήρωα του Μπέλλου περιέχεται στο αποπάνω απόσπασμα.
Το φινάλε του Άδραξε τη Μέρα, κάποιος το μιμείται αυτή τη στιγμή.
Στο παρόν.
الحمد لله رب العالمين- العلاقة بين الابن و أبيه ، قد تضطرب لاقدر الله ،و تسوء بسبب حمق الأبن و إصرار
ঢাকা আরট সামিটের সেমিনার রুমে শরমিনী পেরেরা নামের একজন পজিশনিং, লোকেশন এইসব নিয়ে কথা বলতে বলতে এই বইয়ের কথা বললেন, এই বইয়ের পরথম পযারার কথা। মনে হইলো বাসায় পড়ে আছে যখন, পড়ে ফেলাই।ইতোপূরবে সল বেলো পড়ি নাই। ভালো লাগছে। কোনো শবদ অযথা ছিলো না। কোনো চরিতরও। বেশিরভাগ লেখা পড়ার সময় উলটোটা মনে হয়, মনে হয় কলেবর বাড়ানোর জনয আঙুল নাড়াচছে। একটা সনদেহ অবশয হচছে যে সল বেলো হয়তবা একঘেয়ে। কিনতু এক বইয়ে একঘেয়ে বলি কী করে।একটু ইয়ে লাগতেছে চললিশ বছর বয়সের কথা ভাবতে এখন। আমার ধারণা ছিলো ঐ বয়স মানে পায়ের উপর পা। দিল
ঢাকা আর্ট সামিটের সেমিনার রুমে শর্মিনী পেরেরা নামের একজন পজিশনিং, লোকেশন এইসব নিয়ে কথা বলতে বলতে এই 
Awesome!Saul Bellow has just entered "favorite writers" list.And I've found the grown up, forty-four years old 'Holden Caulfield'.It was awesome...حال بعد از خوندنش مثل حال بعد از خوندن "فرني و زويي" و "سقوط" كامو ه، انگار خسته ميشي بعد از خوندش انقدر حرف برا گفتن داشته، از اون كتابا كه نميشه ازش يه سري كُتيشن برداشت. كل كتاب هايلايت ميشد اگر مال كتابخونه نبود...
Saul Bellow é obsessivo na descrição da decadência (da pessoa, dos laços, do casamento). Repete insistentemente as mesmas ideias de dúvida, negação e desesperança. Depois de ler "A Vítima" e de me solidarizar com Leventhal, não consegui estabelecer a mesma empatia com esta personagem. Mea culpa.
It reminded me a little bit of Death of a Salesman in its depressing tone as Tommy Wilhem is another American Man driven on by the demons of social and financial success and the pressures of family expectations.
It's probably not going to end well but there you have the hopeful optimism of the desperate.After reading this I wondered if the reason that I preferred British books over American ones as a general rule was the predilection for some American writers to focus on the social drive for money in this way.
However, the thing about the book that has stuck with me - and will no doubt lead me to re-reading it in later years - is its examination of American ideals and the internal grapplings of a human soul.
And there are no easy answers to any of Tommy's questions; Bellow muddies the waters a bit so that no character is a saint or a villian.
In fact, I'm not sure, even after reading the novel, if Tamkin really was 'crazy' or a 'joke' and if the father is mean or level-headed.
We've all probably been a little bit like Tommy at some point or another.
I'm afraid I couldn't like this novel although I wanted to.
Yes, the writing is fantastic, the humor is cutting, the psychology of the characters is perfect - however, what I'm missing here is the point, the plot, the actual novella.
The novel never goes beyond a portrait of its protagonist and its supporting characters.
But if I ask myself "what I would've missed if I never read it", I can't think of anything, so I won't consider it a good work of fiction.I also disagree with any existentialist reading of this novel.
"Qualsiasi cosa tu sia scopri sempre di essere il tipo sbagliato" Tommy Wilhelm alloggia in un grande hotel di New York assieme al padre, il professor Adler.Tommy rievoca una vita costellata da errori che ancora chiedono che il conto sia regolato.Tra padre e figlio un rapporto complicato: più il figlio si dimostra un perdente più il padre rifiuta non solo ogni aiuto economico ma anche ogni comprensione ed agisce col preciso intento di tenere le distanze per salvaguardare se stesso.
Una New York che spicca nel suo lato più malsano: inquinamento, traffico e malvivenza.
Rubin runs the lobby newsstand:...As Wilhelm approached, Rubin did not see him; he was looking out dreamily at the Hotel Ansonia, which was visible from his corner, several blocks away.
Together, the two men gazed at it.[Wikipedia notes that Bellow incorrectly attributed the Ansonia to Stanford White.:]Cynthia Ozick makes an interesting comparison of Hemingway and Bellow in her introduction:In 1953, Bellow's The Adventures of Augie March struck out on a course so independent from the tide of American fiction that no literary lessons could flow from it: it left no wake, and cut a channel so entirely idiosyncratic as to be uncopyable.

"Be here now...."Part Wilhelm Reich lecture, part Seinfeld television episode featuring a guest appearance by Ram Dass. I'm not ashamed to say that half of this novella floated over my head or passed through my brain without sticking. I loved the funny bits in the other half though.
A deeply psychological novel, Seize the Day follows the middle-aged man in the life of a single day in New York City.
The story follows Tommy Wilhelm, a middle-aged man, a failed actor, a failed salesman, a husband whose wife refuses him a divorce but takes his money all the same, and a son who - despite his proximity and frequency of visits with his father, remains philosophically and emotionally estranged.
This book sort of reminds me of Death of a Salesman. It's easy to relate to Wilhelm even while judging him (and while judging myself by association). The sentences are wonderful and still very relevant to modern life. I also appreciate that the book is on the shorter side. Bellow packed a lot into a small space and nothing is belabored.
Apolgies in advance for skipping over the plot summary, but here's what I think I learned from this book:1) Bellow, like Banville, is a master of characterization, the expression of character through movement, reaction, idiosyncrasies, etc.
In a sense, Bellow is never not doing this and that's how the story advances.
Bellow's approach is "by any means necessary." Seize the Day is reminiscent of some of the Leopold Bloom sections of Ulysses, particularly toward the end where Wilhelm starts to recede, almost as if he is being absorbed into the city that he will probably leave.
