https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1200322.Ideal_Marriage_Its_Physiology_and_Technique
Anatomy and Physiology of the Male Sexual Organs: circumcision … Sexual Intercourse-Physiology and Technique: Prelude, Love-play, Communion, After-glow, genital stimulation, the genital kiss ...
Sexual Union: stimulation of the male organ, great range of feminine sensation, failure of woman to achieve orgasm ...
Plates: external genital organs of woman, interior female genitalia, genital organs of man.Dr. Vandevelde presents throughout his book a compassionate interest in helping married couples achieve sexual satisfaction in marriage.
There is a particular emphasis that the husband should, as a civilized person, learn about and be concerned for the sexual pleasure of his wife.I am planning to have the two main characters in my new novel attend one of Dr. Vandevelde's lectures in Munich in 1930.
الكتاب تحفة وارشحه لكل المتزوجين خصوصاً المتزوجين حديثاً ,,كاتب يتناول العلاقات الزوجية بشكل طبى بأسلوب مهذب والمترجم دكتور أيضاً ,, اعتقد بأننا نكاد لانعرف معلومات طبية سليمة عن العلاقات الزوجية تحت مسمى العيب وهذا ينعكس على أسلوب حياتنا وتربيتنا لآبنائنا
I don't have a version warning against oral sex for example.
Mine allows for it, but in the orgasm section, still advocates for the achievement of simultaneous orgasm, only grudgingly accepting the concept that a woman might be able to help with her fingers.
The orgasm graphs in How to Make Love to Adrian Colesberry are a lampoon of Van de Velde's graphs where he campaigns for simultaneous orgasm.
What woman wouldn't fake it after that?
Move over Masters and Johnson, an amazingly enlightened book from an amazingly unenlightened era
This incredible book taught me that women experience profuse motions of the bowels while menstruating. I also learned that the colored races are fond of insertion without ejaculation (namely the Japanese). Celery is a major aphrodisiac, but drinking lemonade will drastically decrease your sexual desire. And if you want to learn about the odors of smegma in men and women, I can't think of a better book to read.
Ideal Marriage: Its Physiology and Technique (Hardcover) by Th.H. van de Velde the Kinsey character in the movie "KINSEY Let's talk about sex " reads from the book. Everything he reads is sexual and reproductive nonsense. typical quotes: "The hand should never be used for the purpose of sexual excitation." and "oral contact , while acceptable as a means if stimulation, is pathological if carried through to orgasm and possibly injurious."
I picked this from a pile of free books, based on the title "Ideal Marriage." I didn't really focus on the subtitle, so I was pretty surprised when I started reading.It is interesting, in a way, to read a sex manual from 1926.
Turning to a random page (167), one finds the royal physician's advice to the Empress Maria Theresa: "Praeterea censeo, vulvam sacratissimae Majestatis, ante coitum, diutius esse titillandam." Let him hear who hath ears to hear.Let's try it again (p.
280): "Further aids which can at least have no harmful reactions are hot cushions or pillows applied to the lumbar region.
I have not actually read this quite yet, but got it from a free box. Being highly interested in human sexuality myself, I thought that a book from thus era would be entertaining at worst. So its been sitting on my shelf with all my other books on sex, waiting patiently. I'm currently reading Bonk by Mary Roach and she mentioned Ideal Marriage, gave some context to the social climate at the time of its publishing and some other interesting snippets on it. I'll read it, with even more an open mind than I would've set out.
كتاب مميز للمقبلين على الزواج ويختوي على ادق التفاصيل المتعلقه بلعلاقه بين الزوج والزوجه بشكل علمي دقيق وبادق التفاصيل
Rated: D
I think it's great!
