https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1651302.Perfect
Hanna says "I know who A is!" Not with 13 books to go, you don't!
With this book, I've officially completed my 2015 reading challenge!! Woooo!!This has probably been my least favourite book in the Pretty Little Liars series so far, but it was still really enjoyable :) These books are just so addicting! haha
Spencer becomes so bored she begins to suspect herself of having murdered Alison, just for summat to do.Emily continues to attend her anti-gay cult (which mainly consists of one ex-lesbian in hello kitty jewellery) in order to avoid being sent away to live with her American Gothic hick relatives in Iowa, who spend their days dreaming of nunneries and writing books on sin.
Eventually Spencer attempts to strengthen the random hints at the beginning of the book that she is the murderer by suddenly pushing her sister down the stairs whilst having incriminating flashbacks of doing the same thing to Alison.
This entire series just seems boring and juvenile (and that's coming from someone who reads A LOT of young adult books).
While reading these books, I can't stop asking myself "Why would these people actually do everything Ali said, especially the people who weren't her friends?" WHY!?
So much about this book just seems too far-fetched for me to enjoy reading it.But like I've said in every other review for this series, I'll keep reading the series because I watch the show and also because once I start a series, I try to finish it (even if it is horrible).
Alison was the queen bee, and she knew all of their dirty little secrets.
Things only Alison knew.Who is A?
And what is A going to do with their secrets?I devoured this in one morning.
One MORNING, people.I do not claim that this is a high quality book, but Sara Shepard really knows how to add more tantalizing tidbits without giving everything away.
- but she's revealed so much in this book that even though we're still left hanging, I feel like we've learned something.Totally trashy.
Especially because Shepard has promised that all will be revealed in the fourth book.
I did like this book a little more than the first 2, but still it did not surprise me because I have seen the show, and having seen the show up to the current date (Season 6) I can say that I personally prefer the show, maybe it's because I saw it before I read the books? Or because Caleb is in the show, Or because Toby is in it?
Nothing is as it seems"The saga of Aria, Emily, Hanna, and Spencer continues.
Her relationships with Sean and Ezra are all over the place, and you totally won't expect how it ends.Emily was far more interesting to me this time.
As for the conflict Emily has over family and Maya, it's very realistic and not all that unlikely.Hanna is still one of my favorite characters.
Even "evil" characters like Melissa and Meredith don't feel 100% evil.Of course, the amount of people in these girls' lives that aren't helpful--Aria's mom, Emily's aunt and uncle, Hanna's BFF, Spencer's parents--gets a bit over the top.
Sara Shepard created a new suspenseful and thrilling recipe of four tablespoons of The Grudge, one tablespoon of The Clique and one pinch of The Gossip Girls brings us a novel Perfect; four rich and perfect girls faces reality.
Now Aria, Hanna, Emily, and Spencer gets threaten by Ali’s murder.
Eventually, these secrets of these four perfect girls get unlocked by the murder.
Go and pick up the novels written by Sara Shepard but if you don’t the murder will go after you.
WAIT, Do you think just picking up these novels will stop Ali’s murder from stalking you?!
3.5/5 stars (not rounding up) This one was the most boring one so far. But I like that the writing is getting better (although I saw a few cringe-worthy inconsistencies). Even though most of the book was boring - the ending totally made up for it! It's so different from the show at this point, it's like a whole new world. Have I said that these books are like crack? So bad, but so addicting!!My WEBSITEMy INSTAGRAMMy WORDPRESS BLOG
highly recommend this series
She knew too much. -A
Ok so the girls:Spencer: Currently being blackmailed by A for stealing her sisters essay and then getting nominated for an award because of the writing.
Her parents like to just shut her out instead of actual parenting and trying to resolve issues.
I feel like as a 16 year old girl, yes, you have crushes on your teacher.
Anyway, Aria needs to grow up.Emily: My least favorite of the Liars (the same was true in the show).
I don't like her pushiness and her blatant disregard for Emily's feelings.
I wanted to punch every single person who was mean to her in the face.
But I loved this book; I don't want to ruin it with a lecture.
Maya's so cute!I liked Hanna getting a bit more down to Earth.
Welcome to the real world, Hanna; not everything can be as perfect as you want it to be.
Sure, I wanted her to realise Mona was a terrible friend.
I'm getting over the A side of the story already, at book 3.
Especially finding out exactly what happens with Hanna.
Like with the previous books in the series, PERFECT picks up the story right where FLAWLESS left off.
If you have been disappointed by a book series in the past that dwindled in excitement, be assured that the PRETTY LITTLE LIARS series isn't going to let you down.The story continues to follow Hanna, Spencer, Aria, and Emily as they attempt to find out who keeps sending them threatening messages and exposing their deepest, darkest secrets to their friends and family.
Spenser begins therapy in order to deal with the stress of everything and discovers a horrible secret as well.
SPOILERSI'm actually shook. Like I didn't expect Spencer to be Ali's killer! There is so much that I need to figure out. Is Hannah dead? Is Melissa dead? Where's Aria going to live? I have so many questions. So far, this has been my favorite book and I'm excited to read the next one
(hide spoiler)]Who Died?(view spoiler)[Alison DiLaurentis: They found her body (Pretty Little Liars, pg.
(hide spoiler)]Who Is A?Pretty Little Liars: Book 01Alison DiLaurentis?:(view spoiler)[Throughout the whole first book, the girls all think that Ali is back and is playing a game with them.
144) (hide spoiler)]Flawless: Book 02Toby Cavanaugh?:(view spoiler)[Spencer things Toby is A because he knew what really happened to Jenna and told Ali that he would get her back for what she did (Flawless, pg.
Aria, Spencer and Hanna think that Toby is A because he is at Foxy and knows about the Jenna thing (Flawless, pg.
Perfect (Pretty Little Liars #3), by Sara Shepard
I'm not even sure how to rate books by Sara Shepard anymore.
This book has a lot of problems.
A lot of the book felt like filler.
We see the same scene retold at least half a dozen times, and new information is not always revealed.
The first half of the book is so boring; however, Shepard brings this book to the most climactic conclusion possible without making any reveals.
A is really doing their best to ruin these girls' lives, and it is the perfect hook to come back for more.
Until I reached the climax, this review would have completely bashed the book.
This one was okay but so far the worst out of the three I've read. I still really liked it though! It's funny how with the TV show my favorites are Aria and Hannah but in the books I love Emily and Spencer more. Now off to the next book in the series.
Sara Shepard ha seguido con su dinámica y no me ha sorprendido mucho el giro argumental que se dio en el libro. Sí que hubo cosas que no salieron en la serie, además de que se dieron muchas cosas de forma diferente, pero en sí la serie no perdió la esencia. Me ha gustado pero no me ha marcado ni cambiado la vida. Creo que estaba a punto de conocer más de A, hasta que se atravesó una situación, literalmente. No es lo que esperaba pero está bien.
Ali receives a phone call but doesn't share with Spencer, Hanna, Aria, or Emily.
When they first met, Aria didn't know Ezra was going to be a new teacher at Rosewood.
And she does want to date her friend Maya, but knows how violently her family would react to that news.
All four girls are still getting cryptic messages from the unknown "A." Who can possibly know all of their secrets, the ones that only Ali knew?
As the messages keep coming, each girl gets tangled up in a web of her own creation.
I thought it was Mona.
Who killed Ali?
I think it's very annoying how there are, like 7 or 8(?) books in this series.
Honestly, the whole 7-8 book series could have been concentrated down into two books, three tops.
Mona is dead.
I'M DONE WITH YOU, SARA SHEPARD!
But I guess Shepard isn't willing to give it up so easily.
I bet you'll summarize all of this crap into a nice, couple of pages for me.
YEAH, I'd have killed her too if she took my boyfriend and lied about all of it.
Honestly, Ali, I hate you!
I bet you weren't even that pretty.
Perfect by Sara Shepard was awesome.
Just when I thought her Pretty Little Liars series couldn't get any better, she proved me wrong.
There was much more suspense this time though, more character development, and one amazing shocker of an ending.
Our four favorite little liars are living peacefully in Rosewood and A's threatening messages have seemingly ceased.
Emily's dealing with the guilt she feels about Toby.
This time we feel even more sympathy for these characters and a lot about all four of them is revealed.
Sara Shepard has written a riveting installment in the Pretty Little Liars saga that won't disappoint.
When I picked up this book at my library, I expected it to be about these stuck-up girls, kinda like Gossip Girl and the A-List or whatever.
Then I started reading it and I read it within an hour, it was that good.
It's set up so well and you'll never be able to even GUESS what's going to happen next.
It's not predictable, which is one thing I really like about it.
It's weird that someone is stalking them.
I've read all four and I myself have had my suspicions on who A could be, but I always end up wrong.
I'm excited for the fifth book.
No idea where this story is going.Feel even more confused than when I didn't have half of the information I've got now.The only possible solution I have to offer is that there are about 20 different people working together as A, out of which there's at least one computer genius/hacker, one medium/mind reader and one FBI agent with too much free time on his hands.
Repetitive throughout, which I know this is book #3. Not much action until the last two chapters and it left me hanging which I love.
Y es que aunque los dos primeros libros son muy introductorios, en esta tercera parte la historia comienza a encarrilarse y la trama se pone cada vez más fuerte y tensa.Lo que me gusta de esta saga es que son cuatro personajes en los que se centra y eso hace que sea más amena y fácil de leer.
Y eso hace que el libro sea más real y cercano.Esta tercera parte me ha gustado muchísimo, el final me ha dejado sin aliento y con muchas ganas de coger su continuación.El inglés en general es fácil, no es una novela complicada de entender.
So this review is based on where the book left off instead of explaining it all over again.
Hannah thinks she might have figured out who "A" was when she receives yet ANOTHER mysterious text, but the sender has a made a mistake and left the real number to the phone in the address box.
Hannah has called all of her friends and wants to meet up with them.
Only the next book will tell.....
Four girls, Hannah, Ari, Spencer, and Emily have been recieving mysterious texts, emails, and notes from an unknown person who calls themself "A".
This person is leaving them notes with secrets that only their old best friend, Alison, the girl who was killed in 7th grade, knew.
In Perfect, the girls are getting dangerously closer to figuring out who killed their friend and who is leaving the notes.
Out of the three books I've read in this series, this is my favorite.
I can't wait to read the fourth book in this series.
And who will get what’s coming to them next?I have to say that I love this series, and I loved this instalment too!The storyline seems quite complex in these books, and I think a lot of what happens will have more meaning the further you get into the series.
I loved how Emily’s relationship with Maya developed and what other people thought about that.
I loved the development of Aria and Ezra’s relationship, and I felt really sorry for Hanna and what was happening between her and Mona.
