https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1189454.A_Fortunate_Life
Firstly, I must say how much I enjoyed this book and what an extraordinary read it was.
This story takes us on a journey of Albert Barnett Facey's life.
Albert's mother deserted him when he was only two years old.
From that day forward Albert would have to grow up rather quickly.
Having to start work at an early age was only the start for Albert, but he made the most of each day and tackled whatever life threw at him whether it be working hard on a farm or going off to war.
A beautifully written story that I have no hesitation in HIGHLY recommending.
As a school student and as an adult you often hear tales of how difficult life was for previous generations, but it is only through reading a first hand account like this one, that you really "get" it.
After coming home he learned how to be a farmer and once again, through an amazing work ethic and can-do attitude he made a success of that.One of the magical things about this book is knowing that a generation of men/women like this will never exist again, simply because we have so much more now.
Bert’s granddad had recently died and they were struggling to make ends meet.(view spoiler)[But Bert’s mother was unable, and unwilling to take her children back, so they moved into the bush with an Aunt and Uncle, making a life with the Government grant of land, building their own farm and clearing the bush.
The life was a hard one, and as Bert moved through his, he suffered cruelty from some, compassion and kindness from others.Bert was known for his honesty, never breaking a promise when it was made; his courage was such that he was admired and liked by many.
Facey had an awful 1st 15 years: the 1890s Depression meant his family split up, then his father died, and his mother left him at a very early age.
She was incredibly fortunate that her son-in-law took her & his nieces & nephews in on a virgin block of land.The excitement of this book are these first 15 years: he is enslaved- his family mistakenly thinks he is employed as a companion, worked on various early settled blocks of land, odd jobbing in the city and country, working on building the wheatbelt railways, and even a stint as a drover from the eastern Pilbara.
A Fortunate Life is the only book written by Australian author, Albert Bernard Facey.
The author recounts the events of his life from the late 19th century through to 1976.
What makes it such a great read is that it contains so many details of everyday life in an era devoid of the convenience of electronics, modern day appliances and fast, convenient travel and communication.
Facey relates, often in a matter-of-fact manner, the events of a childhood filled with hardship and lacking parental love, yet he considers his life fortunate.
I can't be enthusiastic enough about this autobiography by Albert Facey.
This is the kind of book that you read aloud to your kids when they are beginning to be bored with you reading to them.
Albert Facey was born in 1894 in Australia.
Abandoned by his mother at age 4, he was raised by his grandmother in the goldfields of western Australia.
He was let out to work at age 8.
Completely self taught, he was unflinchingly hard working.
Through it all he was an old-fashioned gentleman, honest, true and chaste.
This is a book that reminds us what is good and fine about mankind, told clean and true.
My idea was to read books while traveling around CR and then leave them in whatever city I finished them thus making more room available in my suitcase to bring home souvineers.
After reading this book, no, reading is the wrong word ....um...living ...experiencing ...empathizing ...something like that, I have determined my life will have one less souvineer so that I might bring back home this classic book for my personal library.
An Aussie friend down here told me it's a very famous book in Australia (He's an english teacher) and recommended to everyone else at our lunch table.
Disappointment followed disappointment, leaving Facey, beginning at the age of eight, to substantially fend for himself as a hired hand.
As his unhappy early life was characterized by loneliness and abandonment, his adult life was 'fortunate', despite the Depression, despite his disabilities, because of others: because of her, because of their children, because of his comrades in his union and because of the voters in his constituencies.I've read many, many autobiographies, most by famous people, most quite self-conscious, many defensive.
There is one man I've personally known in my life whose own story resembled Facey's.
Like Facey and unlike myself, I'd say much of his life was hard, but very well lived--lived until his ninety-sixth year, a model to all of us fortunate enough to have known him.
His having been instilled with integrity and determination by the grandmother he remained devoted to until her death at 100, Bert's wits and character carried him through many amazing adventures and abuses around post-colonial Western Australia, in which he learned all there is to know about horseriding, shooting, sheep- and pig-rearing, wheat farming, housebuilding and bushcraft, until WW1, whereupon, as a strapping six-footer and amateur sideshow boxing champion, he enlisted and was landed at Gallipoli, which he survived for many weeks until, severely injured, he was sent home, his destiny forever changed.Some stories, such as of his getting lost in his teens on a six-month cattle-drive and being rescued by 'wild blacks', or of the meeting of his future wife, or of being stockwhipped to the threshhold of mortality by a ruthless employer as a child, or of what it's like to bayonet a man to death, stay with you for a long time.
Albert Facey was born around the time of Australia's Federation.
But neither Facey nor his country (and let's face it, Australia is the other main character in this book) was sophisticated or learned.
There is cruelty and there is kindness, though perhaps not in equal measure.It is the simplicity with which Facey tells his tale as he carves out his life parallel to a young nation forging its identity and place in the world, that draws the reader in.
Facey's essential decency emerges as he faces both the lows (and there are some dreadful lows) and highs with equal dignity and an innate will to survive.
However, Facey's life was one of extremes from the early land clearings in Western Australia (you can see today they did *too* good a job there)to the Victorian gold fields and to Gallipoli and one the worst battles of World War 1.
(a defeat that is still celebrated as a victory in many respects in Australia even today)The language is simple in this book.
However, this is an uplifting story of an ordinary man's remarkable life and reccomended if you want some history about Australia that is both entertaining and informative.
I unfortunately did not enjoy this book.
I felt it was full of very interesting information but was written in such a way as to be extremely boring.
Now, I mean no offense to Albert B.
Facey.
But honestly, although the author presents a lot of interesting information about early 20th century Western Australia, I was distracted by his writing his story as if he had kept an extremely detailed journal since the age of four.
Had this not been a book club read I doubt I would have made it even half way.
I was surprised at how much I like this book. It is not what I would typically read: an Australian biography of an "ordinary" man, but his simple, humble writing really captivated me. He leads an amazing life filled with problems (wars, poverty, abuse, the depression) yet always seem to find the bright side and come out of it okay. An engaging read and quite the history lesson.
An epic tale of adventure with a reluctant, humble, intelligent and likeable hero who survives exploitation and harsh-treatment equating to child abuse, then escapes and eventually embarks on an epic wild cross-country droving adventure where he gets lost in the bush is rescued by a local tribe....In an era before occupational health and safety standards were established he falls down a hazardous well and and miraculously escapes.
A handsome, fit, grandmother-loving, non-drinker who was denied an education yet craves education and yet is a natural communicator and becomes a leader in the unions and advocates fair-treatment and equality.
This story is filled with humanity and heart-ache.
From then on, he led a remarkable life from being farmed out at a young age (to cruel and kind families alike), working in agriculture and lifestock, serving during World War I at Gallipoli, surviving the Depression and the loss of a son during World War II.
Not only did he adopt vocational learning, but he sought out people who could help with simple reading and writing skills as well.I loved Facey's story because it was a piece of history and because it showed how a person can appreciate one's life - even one that is filled with trials and tribulations.
One of the BEST books I have EVER read in my LIFE...
I thoroughly recommend reading this novel!!..
It completely changed my perspective on life...
truly TRULY well worth the read..
Tells the true story of the life of Albert.
(who will forever be in my heart and mind)..
It paints a picture of Australia, from the 1900's, at the turn of the century, (when he was born), and further on throughout his life, and details the struggles he faced from a very very young age..
I am so glad he wrote this book..
will be forever grateful to him for sharing his life..

Oh my goodness! Truly one of the BEST books I have ever read. What a crazy, sad, happy, unfortunate, lonely, blessed, wonderful, adventurous, FORTUNATE life this amazing man had. There were many occasions when I smiled, cringed, cried and laughed in this book. It is truly such a beautiful book/ recount of this man's life. I cannot begin to express how much I simply adored it. I would recommend this book to anyone, Australian or not, it is truly a masterpiece and really makes you think about life. What an excellent book to end the year on!
Wow! I am a mess of emotions at the moment.Real Rating: 4 STARSAlbert Facey is a true hero, one who even throughout the hardships of life believes that his life is fortunate.For some reason I was going to DNF this book. WHY? There was a slump in the middle, but as soon as he goes to war everything picks up and just keeps going.If you want a good biography - even if you aren't Australian - I recommend this to you.
A simple book about the simple life of a simple man. Simply perfect. Gorgeous and immersive, this little treasure about the importance of kindness and friendship was a powerful book to read in the lead up to the 100 year anniversary of the Gallipoli campaign. As with 7 Little Australians, gets bonus points for mentioning my home town.
The remarkable life of a seemingly ordinary Australian man.
loved it - felt like I'd lost my best friend when I fineshed it.
There are so many detailed GR reviews, I won't reinvent the wheel by saying too much about the plot or characters, and instead just focus on why I belong in the camp of Facey fans.I loved this book -- or rather the story, which I read in print more than 30 years ago and have just now listened to in audio book format -- a format that I have found highly problematic with many books.
For those who lament its lack of literary merit: yes, this is no literary masterpiece but it is the simplicity and directness of the writing that conveys so much of the authenticity of this man's life story.
If you’re looking for a well written book, do not read this.
However, there were moments when I cringed when he used clichés like ‘all hell broke loose’.I think this book is an important historical text, for Australia as a whole and for Western Australia, where most of the story is told.
While I found my interest wavering in the middle (perhaps due to the length of the book), the first and last act were enthralling – which proves his skill as a great story teller.
His commentary on the horror at Gallipoli will stay with me for a long time.
It’s a great book.
Like my own grandfather, he was raised in extreme poverty, and served in World War One. The story is fascinating reading; not only does it detail Facey's childhood and adulthood, it probably also details the childhood of modern Australia, of its development from outpost of a distant Empire, to independent state.
Sometimes Facey's tales are harrowing - especially the details of his time at Gallipoli, and of his near-slavery as a child.
The book never gets boring and its very easy to read, probably because of the lack of complexity in the language.
Read the book.
I felt like I was having a conversation with my grandad who died a long time ago and had a hard life working on the railways.
This book covered his hard childhood (he started working at 8!), life on the land, Gallipolli and The Depression.
There was a little bragging and I am not sure if all Mr Facey's accomplishments were real ( boxer, council man, tram driver, running properties with 1000's of cattle at age 12!) but it was fun to read his life's journey.
This book simply and beautifully gives us the meaning of life.
A Fortunate Life is an indescribable reading experience.
In this book, we follow a young boy as he works for every single step of his life after many early tragedies force him into going out on his own for work before he even hits the age of ten.
There was a great ending to this story and this man was so wonderful to truly believe that his life was a fortunate one despite all his pain and the issues he faced.
At the end of this book, I felt fortunate to read this inspiring story and follow along on this wonderful journey.
What an amazing, inspirational story.
It certainly puts things into perspective in our own lives.
Obviously, this story couldn't be written in today's society - a nine year old not wanted by his mother goes out to start his working life.
Ranging over an 80 year period, "A Fortunate Life" is the true story of Albert (Bert) Facey.
Set in Western Australia starting in the early 1900's, it is written in the most honest, least technical writing I have ever read - through the eyes of the narrator.
And I really enjoyed that honest perspective.

I am glad I read it, but there is no way I would ever pick it up againA.B.Facey had a very hard life.
But he had an amazing, yet very simple and dry outlook on life.
I apprieciated his struggle and the end result.But I did not like the way this book was written at all.
It read like a bullet point more than a story.
I did not relate to him or anyone else that came and went in his life.I was looking forward to reading about his experience in WWI.
I've read many books on this topic and all of them touched my heart and my soul.
