https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18528190-men-explain-things-to-me
And I just think I may have been spoiled by better essay writers than Solnit.Men Explain Things to Me was a natural choice for my TBR, but the writing quality is just okay, not very evocative or engaging, and the ideas are very basic.
Take, for example, the title essay of "Men Explain Things to Me".
The author highlights her ignorance with this statement because violence has been shown repeatedly to have all of those things.I thought for a while I could say this book was only for those who know nothing about feminism already, but reading statements like that make me think it isn't for those either.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
Here's a little bit of good news from Britain : we have begun to jail men who threaten rape.Labour MP Stella Creasy tells of ordeal as Twitter troll is jailed for 18 weeksSTELLA Creasy has described feeling "frightened" and "terrified" as a result of a hate campaign by a Twitter troll who was today jailed for 18 weeks.Delivery driver Peter Nunn bombarded Stella Creasy with menacing messages including threats to rape her.Nunn, 33, used social media for a series of vile statements after Ms Creasy supported a bid to put Austen on the bank note.The campaign was launched by feminist Caroline Criado-Perez, a court heard.She was also a target of threats from Nunn, City of London Magistrates' Court was told.He retweeted one sickening message to the Walthamstow MP, which read: "You better watch your back, I'm going to rape you at 8pm and put the video all over."Ms Creasy told 5 News Tonight: "I can't pretend that it hasn't had an impact on me.
I am hugely adoring of her writing, so this review is less about the essays themselves (all fantastic) than the fact that it is a discrete volume you can, and should, be toting around in public.Ladies, read it on the subway.Two nights ago I was coming home from a lovely summer's walk to a favorite bookstore, where I snapped up the book.
She did not want Things Explained to her.I scooched over to where they were sitting, and gave them a short precis of the essay's key narrative moment, closing with: "and you ladies know what she's talking about right?
The titular first essay is required reading for humans, especially men.
I enjoyed (is that the right word?) the rest of the book as well, though I felt the essays were best when they were most direct.
My only quibble with the book is that the essays weren't meant to appear together, which led to some unfortunate repetition, right down to quotes from primary sources that appear in multiple essays.
Still well worth the time.One note: The best part about reading this as a book?
No comments section.
You forget how great it is to read someone's ideas without a chorus of nutters shouting at them from the comments.
probably one of the biggest and earliest red flags for me was when she said that "violence doesn't have a race, a class, a religion, or a nationality, but it does have a gender." that's cool and all but as a woman of color i'm exponentially more likely to be assaulted than a white woman and part of the reason behind that is because of fetishizing — done primarily and more or less inducted into the world i live in by, you guessed it, white men.solnit has good intentions, i'm sure, but she clearly has no idea how to think intersectionally.
This collection of essays is a relatively quick read at 130 pages.
In fact, after the introductory essay, there’s no further mention of such behavior.
What follows is what I would call a crash-course in why feminism was so important in the past and also why there’s still a critical need for its existence today.
She brings up stats and facts that are going to make a lot of readers uncomfortable.
Especially those who are unfamiliar with world news, are new to feminism, or somehow managed to miss just how pervasive violence against women is in nearly every world culture.
Rebecca Solnit gets down and dirty, climbs into the trenches, illustrating multiple inequities that women of today still suffer.
This is one such example: The online world is full of mostly anonymous rape and death threats for women who stick out - who, for instance, participate in online gaming or speak up on controversial issues Solnit speaks of the great feminist battle, that at times may have seemed hopeless, but step by step, women are breaking down these barriers.
Walls that at one time seemed too great of a hurtle, impossible to climb over.
"Men explain things to me, and other women, whether or not they know what they're talking about.
This book focuses on gendered assumptions of a woman being seen as “some sort of obscene impregnation metaphor, an empty vessel to be filled with their wisdom and knowledge."My thoughts for the majority of this review come from the titular essay, “Men Explain Things to Me.” Despite the fact that she's an accomplished writer, Solnit experiences “mansplaining” though she doesn’t use that term herself.
As Solnit points out, why hasn't there been a war declared on rape and domestic violence?
It ... didn't go where I thought it would. It starts out strong, she ends on a decent note, but it meanders in the middle in a way that makes me wish it hadn't been a book at all. It's good writing, and the points she makes are important, but overall it was just a little, I don't know, unfocused? Lackluster? Something about the third quarter, all that Woolf/Sontag musing, that lost totally lost my interest. I was hoping for more connection, something sharper.
"Having the right to show up and speak are basic to survival, to dignity, and to liberty." Well, this is a really interesting analyze of these "little nothings" that imprisons women in straightjackets, unfortunately leaving the way open for physical or mental violence. You may not want to see it, but it's here, it does happen, and vigilance is mandatory in my opinion. As I sometimes ask my friends, what kind of world do you want to live in? Is it okay to let people act that way, to agree tacitl
Hell no.▒ Time for a little anecdote ▒A few weeks ago, we read in class a short tale about equality between boys and girls and we debated on the subject just after.
I'm supposed to be sweet, kind, and most important, mute.No, sorry but not sorry to disagree with this and I never, ever want somebody telling me what to think and what I AM.
Note that what I think about women is, in my opinion, as important for men, who are also the victims of these gender stereotypes.Men explain things to me, but not all men.
Do not be fooled by the cutesy title — this is a dark and serious book.Men Explain Things to Me is a collection of essays about feminism, sexism, patriarchy, misogyny, rape, sexual assault, domestic violence, poverty, class warfare and gender inequality around the world.
A friend mentioned how amusing the title essay was, and I assumed the whole book was like that — funny stories about things overbearing men have said to the author.
A veteran feminist, I wouldn't be likely to pick up a book trying to convince me of this sort of thing, but it is nice to have a collection of more recent events.
Still, there were may too many "not all men" excuses and she reveres gay/lesbian couples as egalitarian without gender roles (has Solnit, like, ever met a lesbian couple?) A lot of the ideas are basic, her feminism does not seem to explore intersectionality much and this book ends on some weird esoteric note with a long essay about Woolf and Sontag (why?
Because they are women who do not need Things Explained to them?
3.5 starsUpdate after re-read: this was one the first books on feminism I read. It felt good to reread it! I definitely picked up on more things she was writing about out this time. At the same time, though, I had this feeling while reading some of her essays that she was the stereotypical white feminist that doesn't completely acknowledge other issues feminists of color, or trans women, might have. I think feminism evolved a bit since these essays were written.
It addresses the idea some men have that they have a right to control women's behavior, and to mete out punishment for "misbehavior." (Misbehavior being behavior such men don't approve of, such as women not basing their actions on what such men want.) A few days ago, I was listening to a news report about one of the rapists who's facing the death penalty for his murderous assault on a medical student in New Delhi.
We can do better, and when it comes to a cause as important and beleaguered as feminism, we need to do the best work possible.Here's a passage from Men Explain Things to Me that didn't have the intended effect on me:About three women a day are murdered by spouses or ex-spouses in this country.
When I bought "Men Explain Things to Me," I thought I would be learning about men's thoughts on gender roles/issues.
Solnit explains how this has silenced many young women in the same way as being harassed on the street.
Honestly, some of these conversations with my male friend felt violent, and as Solnit also explains, violence is used to control women.
This is really a gender issue, and what is it that causes males to become so violent.
Enough huh?The good news is that more and more men are "getting it." Many think it is their issue too and are standing up for us, and with us.
But in these essays - of which four out of seven contain horrifying accounts of individual rapes and murders followed by shapeless metaphors about progress and hope - foreign countries are basically only cited as places of horror and oppression, while the lighter moments of the book (like the Woolf essay or a short piece on marriage equality) are all situated in white American thought and activism.
Solnit is great at researching her pieces and matching her words with experience and personal stories, but a lot of times she would be ranting about things that happened in 2003 and I just couldn't relate.I thought the essays were eloquent, but I also understand the concerns that some people have about this book being non-intersectional, since it discusses the fact that women are more likely to be victims of violence than men, but fails to include the hierarchy within that statistic that explains the differences in white women vs.
women of color being victims of hate crimes and domestic violence.
Not a funny collection of mansplaining, but a serious look at why feminism is still important in today's society. Women's liberation has often been portrayed as a movement intent on encroaching upon or taking power and privilege away from men, as though in some dismal zero-sum game, only one gender at a time could be free and powerful. But, we are free together or slaves together.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI recently discussed third-wave feminism with someone who was trying to argue that it was an unnecessary and redundant movement. I basically said, "It's not all about Tumblr. This is the last bastion of feminism. Women are still under-represented in STEM, are still hyper-sexualized, are still blamed for their own rapes, are still told that their own bodies legally shouldn't be under their own control, are still treated like they don't have
It nulls out the group that the movement is supposed to be calling attention to and makes it far too easy to say, "Why are you focusing on women's issues?
Let's focus on things that benefit both genders" and shut down crucial dialogues about many unequal  aspects plaguing society.I bought this book because it went on sale recently and I loved the title, MEN EXPLAIN THINGS TO ME.
From there, however, MEN EXPLAIN THINGS TO ME takes a serious nosedive, discussing the many other ways women are "silenced," particularly with regard to rape and victim-blaming.
Men Explain Things to Me is a collection of essays about the experiences of women in America.
I was reminded of a number of my experiences over the years, from my childhood onwards, that made this a slow and, at times, difficult read.
This essay discussed the power of #YesAllWomen.-Pandora's Box and the Volunteer Police Force: The essay about the 'one step forward, four steps back' efforts for women to be treated as people in the U.S.There was some repetition in the essays, as they were written across several years in response to various incidents.
Everyone on Book Riot has been saying how amazing this book is and I am finally getting around to reading it. Amazing doesn’t cover it. Thought provoking, sure. Rage inducing, definitely. Necessary reading, absolutely.-Kristen McQuinnfrom The Best Books We Read In November 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/12/01/the-be...
Solnit stresses the idea a few times throughout, starting on page two:Here, let me just say that my life is well sprinkled with lovely men, with a long succession of editors who have, since I was young, listened to and encouraged and published me, with my infinitely generous younger brother, with splendid friends of whom it could be said--like the Clerk in The Canterbury Tales I still remember from Mr. Pelen’s class on Chaucer--"gladly would he learn and gladly teach."Solnit is prominent and respected as a feminist writer, and Men Explain Things to Me is a compilation of her essays, some previously published elsewhere, exploring various feminist issues.
Short collection of essays that start in a humorous way, but take a darker and more serious tone. What started as why men explain things to me, and how they explain everything to women, and how this control leads to all sort of violence against women. Rebecca does a great job at shocking the reader and forcing us to recalibrate our thoughts. She shows how patriarchy n the status quo are enemies to woman everywhere.
In reading METTM and reliving all the stupid, maddening ways I've been condescended to, all the times I've felt my safety comprised by a man, and comparing this to the terror women live in daily, I just don't know where to go.
Rebecca Solnit does not offer the answers, but she makes a very cogent case why feminism is a struggle for human rights, why it should matter to us all.It's also a beautiful thing that I read this after I read my first Virginia Woolf, a few weeks ago.
Solnit makes me hunger to read more Woolf.
It was to take these conversations as the narrow end of the wedge that opens up space for men and closes it off for women, space to speak, to be heard, to have rights, to participate, to be respected, to be a full and free human being.If you come across an ignorant person who pretends that sexism does not exist or that feminism has no merits, please direct them to this book.
In her collection of essays Men Explain Things to Me, Rebecca Solnit articulates the problems that arise within the discourse of men and women.
I liked the title of this and truthfully I thought it would be Solnit relating or interpreting the difference in how men and women approach an issue, a problem, a situation.
This short book of essays or blogposts is rather thoughts from a female point of view which I am already most familiar with, and I applaud Solnit for clarity and wit, and in the later essays, a certain depth of understanding.
But I think Arendt would say Solnit is on the right track, and would celebrate and encourage, and perhaps even use her ideas, as Solnit says Sontag did, as the starting point for deep discussion.She mentions the website TomDispatch.com for giving several of her essays wide circulation.
Handling these issues separately serves only to obscure the issues of power and privilege at play.Solnit didn’t coin the term “manplain”; however, her 2008 essay on TomDispatch.com on the phenomenon of men with only a cursory knowledge of a subject lecturing female experts predated the origin of the term, and Solnit has had a lot to do with alerting women to this ubiquitous form of patronization, “these conversations as the narrow end of the wedge that opens up space for men and closes it off for women: space to speak, to be heard, to have rights, to participate, to be respected, to be a full and free human being.” As she writes:Every woman knows what I'm talking about.
Such an enlightening book. A must read for everyone, men as well as women.
Most of that danger comes from men and even from well-meaning men who just can't help "explaining" things to women.It's hard to be at work in the position that I'm in it having to report to men who don't know as much as me about a subject, but often feel the need to tell me that something that I told them was totally not working in the way that it should be.
It’s the presumption that makes it hard, at times, for any woman in any field; that keeps women from speaking up and from being heard when they dare; that crushes young women into silence by indicating, the way harassment on the street does, that this is not their world.
Everyone should read this book. That is all.(view spoiler)[I (usually) do not like to rate non-fiction books and I hardly ever do. I don't think a star rating can express the importance of a book like this one. (hide spoiler)]
