https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92845.The_Black_Unicorn
It felt like fun, campy, classic fantasy.My favorite character by far, was a Prism Cat from the fairy realm, named Edgewood Dirk.
Ben Holiday is not the brightest crayon in the box, by a long shot and Dirk spends all of his time cat-slapping sense into him.
The themes were strong; though, from time to time, I felt like I was being bludgeoned by said themes with a brick, because Ben was just so oblivious.Ben spends the entire book looking for this sylph, Willow.
He obsesses over her at every fucking turn and yet, it takes him until the very very end to admit to himself that he (view spoiler)[is in love.
RE: The Black Unicorn by Terry Brooks I recently finished reading this book, the second in Brooks' Landover series.
(I have also read the first in the series, Kingdom for Sale, Sold!) I enjoyed following up on the characters and story from the first book.
So I'd close the book and go onto another book until I was ready to relax again with this gentle fantasy.
It's a friendly read.
I'd call it "gentle suspense".
I enjoyed all the characters as well as Brooks' easy style, dotted with little sparks of humor.
The Landover series continues in the mode of the first book, right down to the cast.
The prism cat Dirk, with his aloof, obtuse, disdainful, maddening catness, upstages even Questor.
One cannot help but feel a bit of Dirk's disdain for such bumbling bipeds.
There's a great little moment when the reluctant canine Abernathy is faced with destroying the magical books that may return him to his human form, but past that crisis, you realize that was the only interesting thing about him.
Brooks has wrung all of his characters dry.
Un inganno...magicoBen Holiday è finalmente re di Landover,ma le trame losche del perfido Meeks lo a
Because I live in a house with a science fiction / fantasy library in the living room, I challenged myself to read the following three books:1.
One Piers Anthony novel2.
One Star Trek novel3.
One Terry Brooks novelI started with this book and about 25 pages into it, I wondered about this challenge.
I wondered why I was wasting my time reading bad books when there are so many good books on my list I want to read.And this is a bad book.
Predictable character types, cliche metaphors, you name it.I got about a third of the way through and realized it just wasn't worth the "unicorn book" merit badge on my Nerd Scouts sash.
Ben Holiday is whiny and too stupid to have the history his author claims.
I coped with this during the first book because he has quite a lot to whine about, and while there's nothing novel about the concept of a hidden fantasy world that exists alongside our own, the setup was still mildly amusing.
The plot of this novel involves him losing his identity to an 'old magic' and with it the throne of Landover.
*sigh* Better than half of the content of this book involves Ben Holiday, High King of Landover and former high power attorney from Chicago whining at and arguing with a cat.
Le problematiche del sognare a Landover Seguito che non gode della stessa freschezza del capostipite, caratteristica forse insita al primo capitolo di una saga; e convince generalmente pochino tutta la gestione approssimativa della componente onirica e del binomio realtà-allucinazione che si cerca di portare avanti in maniera fiacca.Anche sui personaggi - troppo macchiettistici e fossilizzati su se stessi - c'è davvero poco da dire.
And Holiday can't figure out that when everyone tells him the magic that's making him not recognized as King of Landover is his own doing, all it means is that he's not confident in himself.So, why is that really fucking annoying?Because the entire last book's premise was that he couldn't truly be King of Landover until he believed in himself.
Recycling!The only person who's not holding the idiot ball the entire fucking time is Abernathy, the court scribe and resident dog.
Who makes a unicorn a fucking McGuffin?
(around 1998)Re-read May 2016 4 1/2 stars*Review in progress*I really do love this series.
Lots of magic, a bit of action and comedy and lots of terrific story and fantastic creatures!
Dirk the Prism Cat. He is one of my new favorites in this series.
A cat and Fae creature in every way!
Ben is a bit dense in this one and he really plays the poor victim card but at least he doesn't fully give up.
Although Willow's timeline seems off from other members for the first 1/2 of the book which bothered me a bit.
First off, Willow's shade of green is too bright I think.
I really liked this book,and thought it was as good if not better than Magic Kingdom For Sale-Sold.More story-lines going on at the same time and just a touch of intrigue.
Tutti e tre si mettono in viaggio, e scatenano qualcosa che non si aspettano per nulla.I personaggi sono quelli del primo libro: Ben, Willow, Questor e Abernathy, con una serie di personaggi secondari, come i due coboldi, la Strega del Crepuscolo e il drago Strabo.Ovviamente si concentra di più su Ben, ma un gran spazio ha Willow (ottima cosa, essendo l'unico personaggio femminile, ANCORA UNA VOLTA, a parte la strega).
E Questor pare migliorato ma poi mica tanto.Questo secondo libro mi è piaciuto un po' di meno rispetto al primo.Parlando delle cose positive: si vede una crescita piuttosto faticosa in Ben, che capisce più di se stesso e di Landover.
Though they don't know it their quests are connected, and not in a good way.I love Edgewood Dirk(who doesn't love a fae cat ;p ) and am glad that now Willow is out doing her own things (even if for male driven reasons), and I have to say the general concept of a black unicorn is really cool, plus the unicorn related revelation at the end of the book is actually pretty damn cool.I just sort of felt it was too obvious from too early on that (view spoiler)[ the 'cursed' medallion was actually still Ben's medallion, just glamoured.
I have figured out why I am so-so on these books. I mean, it is good fantasy, but some part of me goes ‘eh’ and that is because the characters are not growning. They are pretty much unchanging and they are also not really nice. They don’t listen to each other at all.
Overall I liked listening to the book. There is a part of me though that struggles with the Hero's density of mind at times, which probably stops me from giving it 5 stars, but beyond that the book was very enjoyable.
Unicorns and gnomes and demons and a witch and a dragon and 2 wizards and a beautiful girl who turns into a tree...
and a Kick Ass Knight.
One is for King Ben to go back to his old world (Chicago) and check on his best friend.
Two is for Questor (the wizard) to go looking for some lost books of magic.Three is for Willow (Ben's Hottie Green Tree-like girlfriend) to go looking the somewhat mythical black Unicorn.But who gave them these dreams???
An evil old Wizard perhaps?
Awesome Knight fight at the end (as always)
In it, one night Ben Holiday, the new king of Landover, his wizard Questor Thews, and the sylph Willow all have dreams that compel them to go on individual quests because of what they see in their dreams -- Ben sees his former law partner in Chicago in trouble and crying out for Ben's help, Questor sees some magic books he can acquire, and Willow sees a black unicorn and a gold bridle meant for it.
He then takes possession of the books that Questor attained and goes on an extensive search for the black unicorn, which apparently possesses some serious magic that he wants to harness.
In the male ennui novel, the (white) male lead feels a lingering discontent, goes out on some new adventure, and hooks up with some new chick-- whom he doesn't really love, he's too manly for that.You can kind of see the problems in their relationship since Willow spends the entire book searching out the black orgasmic unicorn.
That would at least make more sense than having her 15th touch be meaningful and shattering and whatnot.)---A brilliant CD reading salvages an annoyingly straightforward fantasy story.
Even though the cover illustration makes "the most beautiful woman in any world" look like a cross between a female body builder, a horse, and some river moss.Plot synopsis: Ben Holiday bought a magic kingdom in the first book...
The sylph (refer to above cover description) is sent to capture the black unicorn that has been seen, the wizard is sent to get some magical books, and the king Ben is sent back to Manhattan to make sure his best friend is OK.
He unwittingly brings back his mortal enemy to the magic kingdom, who intends to use the black unicorn and magic books for his own nefarious purposes.
This is a rather lackluster novel of magic and journeying across a fantasy world, which this author seems to be known for (except the lackluster part.
I hear a lot of people really like this guy's books).
evil magic book I've ever read.
The one redeeming quality this book has is that of the prism cat, Edgewood Dirk, who follows Ben on his quest and imparts important information in a cryptic cat-like way.
He was so funny, and so very, very like what I would imagine a magical talking cat would be, so aloof and arrogant.
The premise of Magic Kingdom for Sale -- Sold!
As a result Ben goes back to earth to check on his old partner while Willow the Sylph looks for a golden bridle and Questor Thews, the wizard looks for the lost books of magic.
However Ben soon learns that his trip to earth was a scheme to allow the evil wizard Meeks back into Landover where he uses his magic on Ben so that he can take over the throne.
He also has deceived himself about his feelings for Willow as often occurs with a man toward a woman.
Book Review: 2 Treasure BoxesI found the story to be interesting and I really liked how each of them faced and dealt with their own challenges.The story shows growth within all characters, although I thought that Ben had to make the greatest self-discovery in order to overcome his challenge.
I enjoyed reading how each of them dealt with the dilemmas they faced as they completed their journeys.
I am looking forward to reading the next book in the series to see what new adventures our characters will become involved in.For my full review go to: http://books-treasureortrash.com/?p=803
When I finished Magic Kingdom for Sale-Sold I could not stand to end the story there.
This book allowed me to keep the adventure going, but it was not as good as the first.
In the first Landover book Ben is a very clever man.
That frusrated me to no end.
The Ben from the first book would not have been so blind.
I was a BIG fan of some of the new characters you get to meet in this book.
It was also a lot of fun to have the old characters back.
I did like this book...a lot.
Second in thr Landover series. Ben is tricked by the evil wizard Meeks and his friends no longer recognize him as king. His only companion is a prism cat named Dirk. Meanwhile, Willow goes in search of a black unicorn she has seen in dreams.The second book does more world building, though I still don't have a solid grip of how magic works in this universe. The relationships between the characters undergo some growth. I love how cat like Dirk is, magical talking and all he still has cattitude and feline behaviours. Will read on.
It's been a year since Ben Holiday bought the magic kingdom of Landover. However, when he has a troubling dream, Ben realizes that he must make a return visit to his old world. Ben's dream turns out to be a trap, and he is tricked into bringing the evil wizard Meeks back to Landover.Meeks quickly switches identities with Ben, and sends him off to wander Landover as a wretched nobody. Can Ben Holiday learn to overcome the magic that has stolen his identity, and rescue those he loves in this strange new world?
I like this series, but it definitely has its weird moments.
Generally, I enjoy this series because it is pretty light-hearted with a lot of creative characters and a unique world.
I think I like this one a bit less because it addresses a lot of the same issues (and villain) as the first one.
Also, I've always found Willow a bit odd.
I'm not entirely sure why, but I thinks he's almost too serene.
I tend to like feisty characters like Abernathy much more.
The addition of Edgewood Dirk was also pretty interesting.
I read these some years ago and while they are not "real memorable" plot wise (they are lighthearted and convoluted) they are memorable as "fun. I prefer them to most of Brooks other works...the ones of a more serious vein.
This one was cute, with the plot twist I didn't see coming. Ben has his work cut out for him in this follow up to Magic Kingdom for Sale :) It's a fun romp, & you are cheering for Ben to get things figured out before his enemies get him.
Not as enjoyable as the first one but still good.
We spend a good portion of the first half dealing with Ben Holiday's lack of confidence and fear, which was an issue that was dealt with last book as well.
It was a little frustrating.That and if Ben and his friends would have simply listened to the voice of reason from Abernathy at the beginning of the book, well there wouldn't have been much of a book.
And even though books often like to show a character overcoming their fears and anxieties for good, it is more believable that they would come up again later until some underlying issues behind them are dealt with.
Es gelingt ihm, Ben in eine Falle zu locken und die ersten Schritte seines Plans umzusetzen, was gleich zu Beginn zeigt, wie viel Macht er hat.
Es ist erneut sehr wichtig, zu sich selbst zu finden und mit den eigenen Sorgen umgehen zu können, was ich sehr mochte, obwohl es ein bisschen zu lange gedauert hat, bevor Ben auf die Lösung gekommen ist, die ziemlich offensichtlich zu sein schien.
Vermutlich musste es besonders dramatisch geschildert werden und was die Spannungskurve betrifft, funktioniert es auf jeden Fall.Von den kleinen Kritikpunkten abgesehen mochte ich "Das schwarze Einhorn", weshalb ich für diesen Band erneut vier Sterne vergebe.
