https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/269589.The_Cantos
I read this one on the train on my way home from work today - NOT!
Money.
Pray nay, the misuse of money, tis mankind's fray.
Pray again, for all their dark deeds, it's their history, may they finally get their do.
The Cantos, a must read for everyone, in a century, tis great, the one book you must do.
To some extent (in my opinion) to really be able to understand the Cantos you have to strive to become Pound.
This is not something the academics are willing to do, and many of them (in my opinion) miss the whole point.
Putting aside questions of identifiable mental illness, there is a way in which Pound, in the Cantos, is often just not in touch with rationality as we ordinarily understand it.
This is the craziness of someone who sees something that other people don't see (which is not in itself crazy) and who expects that other people will also see it if he just shows it to them.
I’m sort of dreading this one. It’s a notoriously difficult book to read. And it’s even rated above Ulysses in the goodreads difficult book poll.But I'm writing my MA dissertation on Pound's poetry. So I suppose I'd better make my way through his most developed work and see if it is a ball of light. This one will take a while!
Though Pound's Cantos are going onto the "to-poke-at-with-a-stick" shelf, I have actually read a number of the poems over the past few months, and some of them are staggeringly stunningly wind-and-sea-and-stone-coast-wrought Hellenic dreambeauties.
The Cantos linger on my shelf (it's a gorgeous stark New Directions); sometimes I find them open in my palms and I don't know how they got there; often they achieve that place that rare poetry does, where you feel like it's actually the voices of Time, Mind, and Earth; at other instances you feel that you're having the golden fleece pulled over your eyes; still, I am intrigued- fascism and mental instability are intriguing, among many other things- when poetry is added into the mix, we're just all ambiguously rattling the chains of HISTORY and the voice through which it sometimes speaks clatters clatters.
Phew.
I feel like I've run a marathon, and I've only picked at parts of these.This is a wholly absorbing set of poetry.
Approximately 120 cantos which start off reminiscing about the Renaissance, going through all eras and ages of history, citing letters, missives, pamphlets, rages.
History as poetry, a grand tour.
Chinese characters, intricate, representing ideas and names and figures.The chant, USURA, elicits rage and greed and war, and the titanic struggles against corruption and ideology which have consumed this past century and which still rage in this one.As much I find Pound the man abhorrent and mad, but as for Pound the poet, he is a force.
Feueragusaria iordenwater; now godsun shine on menday’s daughter; a good clap, a fore marriage, a bad wake, tell hell’s well; such is manowife’s lot of lose and win again, like he’s gruen quhiskers on who’s chin again, she plucketed them out but they grown in again.
Diving into the Wake was pleasure, the Cantos often felt like Work.
It is difficult to estimate the totality of effect of Pound's having been.
Lewis is, natheless, as the tree, having never been (nor yet is he to be) seen as much, if seen.
Thus, and as simply, may we owe the finer and distinct shapes of poetry, prose, painting, sculpture, and music--each, when working, interpenetrating its neighbor--to Pound's having been--and operatively, done.
Kenner's "Pound Era" is a good start toward understanding the abovementioned effect; Davenport's "Ithaka" a signpost with headway.
At that, I am just closer to understanding what he was up to.
"And If you say that this tale teaches...a lesson, or that the Reverend Eliothas found a more natural language...you who thinkyou willget through hell in a hurry..." - opening lines of Canto XLVI You will not find a better summary of all that modernist poetry had to offer than Ezra Pound's decades long collection of poetry, written with The Divine Comedy in mind, that he simply called The Cantos.
This is not a book to be read by a novice or someone unfamiliar to modernist literature as it is way more complex than what you will get from T.S. Eliot.
You want to reject Pound, as you want to reject Celine, for his politics, and for his role in the tragedy of the 20th century. But his is voice that gets inside you head and won't got way, and his incantations make your liver quiver. And you realize that there really is no Eliot or Hemingway or Williams or Ginsberg without him. No Beats. No Funk. And besides, the greatest tragedy he presided over was his own. Winter is icumin in, lude sing goddam . . .
In my death-bed senility I'll turn the last page and hauntingly tell that terrible grandchild, the one that's always torturing the cat or something, "Promise me one day you'll read this, it's a classic." I call this move the Reverse Rosebud.
I try not to overanalyze what I read that calls itself poetry.
But the elements that do please me, such as the sounds of the words, the interesting images, clever turns of phrase, a curious point of view, maybe even just the pattern of the ink on the page...not here.
Sit down and wait for them to crumble.” These lines, written by Basil Bunting, are about Ezra Pound’s Cantos, one of the pillars of Modernism.
But if we judged writers by their personal failings there wouldn’t be much left of the literary canon.
You need help with this, unless you are a polyglot with an encyclopedic knowledge of economic, political, and literary history (not me).
For example, the first canto is Pound’s translation of a 16th century Latin translation of part of Homer’s Odyssey, written in Pound’s take on ancient Anglo-Saxon poetic meter.
Brilliant, maddening, exhausting--- but one of the masterpieces of modern lit. There are sections that thrill the heart to read aloud and cantos that drive you into a fury with obscurantism and posturing. Every time the word "usura" comes up (a fortiori when it's a personified Usura) you remember Pound's lunatic politics and his support of Mussolini and Hitler's invasion of Russia. And certainly the madness of Pound's later years is just waiting here. But these poems are great powerful thundering intricate oddly delicate and sensitive things--- impossible to sum up, really. Get a copy and just...leap into the reading.
Difficult, difficult read. It is also a work of genius. Demented genius at that. Imagine Pound living in an steel cage, writing under the glare of floodlights and open hostility. Certainly not a nice man, but also not an animal. There is no Emily Dickinson to be found here...
Maybe you could justify this mess by citing it as an early example of “found poetry” (i.e., large chunks of it is stuff that Pound cribbed directly from primary sources, but he chopped the lines to make it look like poetry).
Cantos-loving critics anxiously piece together some letters he wrote to so-and-so as evidence that The Cantos is “majestically” organized (it’s usually pretentiously explained like a math equation: AA = BB + CBC =AA, or something).
“Tin flash in the sun dazzle.” Excellent description of sun off water used in a couple of The Cantos, for example.

after a few glasses of wine i LOVE this book. i haven't found very many deeper meanings in pound's rambling.. i think its just his intoxication with words and their rhythms that make it fantastic
Sections of this book are incredibly beautiful, timeless, and untouchable, paired with a bunch of fascinating intellectual moves and an attempt to bring together the history and mythology of everything, ever, in a single poetic work.
The failure of the book is important, and makes it more fascinating even if it doesn't make it good; for me the best poems were near the beginning, which makes me think I should probably read some of Pound's pure imagist poetry eventually.
Tough going, but worth it. Despite its size, it's incomplete, trails off. Full of false starts, wrong paths, arrogance. But also great beauty. It's a gorgeous failure, and well worth exploring, much like life.
Takes years to read these fully. It did pay off. For me, anyway.
I could read this book again and again forever and still not completely get it, but it is one amazing book. Being fluent in 12 or 13 languages would help.

Well, a fascist he may have been, but his poetry is daring, difficult and beautiful. His images remain the best ever written...with a line he could conjure such feelings, such reactions -- and not always pleasant: "a condom full of black beetles". His writing, nigh inaccessible to those not possessing an almost encylopedic knowledge of classical literature, chinese mythology, science, poetry, etc. is in some senses the ultimate expression of the elitist movement of high modernism...and that's why I love it, and why most people would throw this book against the wall in fury.
Pound's indefensible as a person.
He was a fascist and an anti-Semite and completely fucking nuts.
He's also been dead for a while so I don't feel bad about reading this (much like I'll finally watch Roman Polanski films once that fucker kicks the bucket).
The parts about how shitty World War I is are fantastic.
The parts about myth are fantastic.
Then Pound goes off on a tear about...
I don't know...
I don't know...
the gold standard, or something, and then the banks that run the world, and then...
But the parts about how World War I sucked are *AWESOME*.
I only give this five stars because Pound is dead. If he was alive, I'd ask him to stop publishing, but by all means to keep writing this mind-boggling work----it was clearly important to him in ways I can't fathom. On the other hand, it makes complete sense. There are moments of clarity that remind me of old Pound, but Old Pound spreads them out so far across the work that I forget why I'm still reading. But that's what reading is, though: lots of words and a few great, memorable moments that are impossible to forget.
So what if it doesn't cohere? When it's lovely, it's lovely. Parts are intensely moving. Demote the book, please. It's the magnum opus of an American eccentric, and should be read as such.
The greatest poetic epic of the 20th century. Takes a lot of study, but worth every minute.
unending discovery of almost anything that is formed in poetry... never to be fully understood
An epic masterpiece, heart breakingingly beautiful in many places, but uneven, and even unreadable in other spots.
Simply indispensable.
A great work. Canto XLV in particular is the true spirit of puck rock.
