https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77398.Gap_Creek
So, as far as I am concerned, the author's gender is not a problem.Another issue I noticed in several reviews is that some readers feel this book is depressing.
The last of the concerns expressed by other readers I want to address was the graphic details of some of the events, such as a hog killing and butchering.
And I doubt that the average reader would grasp what a chore it is for a woman to help with hog killing and butchering without some details.
This book alone managed convince me to ignore Oprah's Book Club. The situation was interesting enough but I decided that Robert Morgan should not try to write from a woman's perspective. In my opinion he got it all wrong. Not worth recommending and i can't figure out why so many people loved it.
Robert Morgan's "Gap Creek" is written in a simple manner, easy to read, but raw.
The primary root of trouble in this story is the land of Gap Creek itself.
In this story, the land of Gap Creek rears itself up and fights against the main characters Julie, Hank and the other mountain people on the boarder of South Carolina at the turn of the century.
Morgan also depicted Julie as the earth itself; she struggled against it, but it made her who she was.
Although it wore out both Julie and Hank, the land itself forged their character for better or for worse.
I rated this 5 stars because of the way it was written and the twists in this couple's story.
But if I have to rate the characters in this novel, I would definitely rate Julie 4.5 stars and her husband Hank only 1 star.
Hank was just strong in physique but not on the inside because of how he easily snap and breakdown during problems.I know that other reviews on this book were not that good but for me, I enjoyed reading it.
And before I could forget, I was really amazed that a man written this because of how he portrayed women/wives stronger than them, guys.
I hated this book for so many reasons!
I don't buy Robert Morgan writing as a female.
It just doesn't wash.2.
The sex scenes are beyond unbelievable - they read like some weird hill-billy acid trip synthesia.
I don't buy that such a strong female character would tolerate such an abusive, whiny husband.
On a related note, I hated Hank and was waiting for him to die.
The book is written in the first person, and the charcter's grammar wasn't consistant.
It slipped between normal and dialect for no apparent reason and pulled me right out of the story.
I thought this one started strong but ended weak.
The subtitle is "The Story of a Marriage," but I don't find that accurate, since the story doesn't follow the marriage through--we only get a glimpse at the very beginnings of a marriage.
Also, the further along I got, the more I skimmed because I started getting bored.
Overall, though, I enjoyed the story, and I think MOrgan accurately portrays the Appalachian lifestyle at the turn of the century, and I am always interested in stories that capture what life was like there then.
I also appreciate the depiction of a strong female character.
I've been an Oprah Book Club fan since the beginning, may be in the minority. I thought this book was great, simple but raw. I love books set in the Appalachian's. My first book by Robert Morgan, I like his style of writing. Look forward to more fm this author!
Written in a voice similar to Cold Mountain, Gap Creek tells the story of a can-do kind of young woman who works so hard it hurts your back to read about it.Morgan portrays the delicate evolution of a marriage, and of a girl trying to define her identity in relation to the union, a timeless theme for sure, but one made more nuanced by the circumstances in which Julie lives.
She and Hank live at the meanest edge of subsistence, with no electricity or running water, and just one injury, illness, or crop failure between death and survival.Morgan use simple descriptions to transport us into Julie’s everyday world:	“I stepped out to the back porch and looked in the yard.
Uhhhhh....
What exactly was the point of what I just read??!!!
Oh, there wasn't one???!!!
Ok. Just checking.
Was this bad?
No. Boring at times, yes.
I mean this is a Oprah 's book club read....the praise for it is borderline overwhelming.
But, I just can't gush.
I can't tell you it was horrid.
I'm not going to remember this book.
The only memorable moment was the baby death scene.
Even that wasn't written extraordinarily well.
The characters were hard to get to know.
None were  super likeablelikeable.
And, what was up with the baby sister jealousy?
Those moments really bothered me.
Next time I pick up an Oprah book, somebody please just slap me.
This book is more depressing than a sunless day in January.
Read on...***Spoilers***Set in 1899, the book opens with 17-year old protagonist Julie Harmon describing the gruesome death of her younger brother.
But it's no guarantee we'll ever be happy.I agree with the concept that we have to work hard to earn joy and happiness in life.
It's amusing that this novel is recommended by the Oprah Book Club juggernaut alongside Faulkner, because Morgan is trying for the Faulkner unreliable narrator, first-person regional dialect.
I don't think he's entirely successful, though.
I think it's late 1800s or around the turn of the century, but it's not entirely clear.
It’s clear that Morgan did extensive research, and he certainly seems to have his facts and details right, but all that comes at the expense of the narrative; it feels self-conscious and I found myself easily distracted.
Hank in particular is an enigma, and I don’t think it does the story any favors to have him be so mysterious and hostile.
Gap Creek takes you back in time to Julie Harmon's life at the turn of the century.
Events take a quick turn after these deaths when Julie meets Hank Richards, and marries at the young age of 17.
Robert Morgan takes you through the day to day struggles of life and ends the tale emotionally with yet another death to Julie and her family.
It is written more at a Young Adult level and because of the time period the author chose to use language that may have been more domineering to that time of life.
Forgot to update as I was reading this. A very compelling book, loved the determination through out. Is there a follow up to this book? My first book by this author, would love to read more by him.
The only reason that I gave it a rating of 2 is because it was well written and because I felt compelled to keep reading to see what would happen to the heroine, hoping that something good would come her way.
The result of his effort is that it seemed to me that he was telling his version of how a woman should feel about and react to a whole bunch of bad things that happened to her and her family.The book was a total downer, wrought with nothing but sadness, extreme hard work resulting in bad outcomes, and death.
"The ground was deep in fresh-fell leaves, and leaves sparkled like they was waxed and oiled.
I kicked up a cloud of leaves.
I kicked up a fog of new-fell leaves.
I kicked away the leaves in front of me like deep fresh snow.
I caught leaves in my apron and pitched them away." Julie is such a strong character, and she helped me feel how hard it was to live and survive back not too long ago.
And Julie just kept doing the next thing, even when it seemed impossible.
This book takes you on the journey with Julie.
I don't like to read about any sort of books containing rural background.
Julie is a hard working woman who, had seen her father and little brother die before her eyes.
They say "she works hard like a man".
In the story she had to chop up the pig into pieces and have them as dinner.
If I were Julie, I dont' think I can last 1 minute of chopping up that pig.So, overall, I think this book was okay, not good but not bad.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys learning about family building and...
pig chopping..
I know a lot of people did not like the way it was written but I had no problem overlooking the "ignorant" speech of the characters.
The story was touching and sad and made me infinitely grateful to live in a time where life is easier.
The way uneducated and poor people lived was hard and life was an uncertain for the young and old alike.
Marriage provided no relief and she had to work even harder in order to make a life with her husband.
Since I haven't been reading like I used to, I wanted something easy to get me back in the groove, and this book, and the snippet of review from the NYT on the cover, caught my eye.
It's interesting enough, and the first 50 pages or so drew me in like crazy (hint: gruesome death), but as I neared the end, I realized that there wasn't really ever going to be any story or any real resolution to this novel.
I don't want to be a gender elitist here, but it wasn't convincing, and it seemed a bit patronising.
Spoilers aheadGap Creek by Robert Morgan was also a free friday book and it was an Oprah Book of the Month book as well.
Oprah, you did not pick a winner here.
At one point of the story she gets conned and when her husband finds out he slaps her in the face and calls her a “stupid heifer” and what does she do?
Until the end when he kind of redeems himself (not really) when he takes care of Julie and their sick baby after Julie birthed the baby at home, by herself.
And in the end they lose everything the worked for and wind up leaving their home.
Set in South Carolina during the late 1800s, Gap Creek is where newlyweds Julie and Hank set out to make a life.
Julie narrates this story, telling of sorrows and joy.
Her faith in God helps her live through sadness and trials.
I think it is her endurance that gives Hank hope in surviving the worst of times, from a terrible fire, a dangerous flash flood, and the loss of their firstborn.
A simple, hard life says it all.
I learned a lot about survival, hog dressing, burial customs, seeds, and other affairs of plain living.
Morgan's writing is beautiful and at times poetic, which is not surprising given his background as a poet.
The scenes with his mother give us some insight, but more might have been helpful.
There are a lot of lengthy descriptions of Julie's hard work throughout the book.
Although at times they can start to get tedious and there's a "well-researched" feel to them, they do help paint the picture of just how hard working and tough she was.
In any event, despite some minor issues, I loved Morgan's descriptions and imagery and I came away really impressed with this book.
Alright I know this book has been out for years, but I just got around to reading it.
This was one of those books where I found myself sneaking away from other things I needed to do, to go back and read more.
It makes sense, since as a young girl I was ALL about Little House on the Prairie (yes the books, not the tv show).
I was captivated by this strong woman (actually, a girl, 17 yrs old) who basically did what she had to do to survive.
No spoilers here, you will have to read it to find out more.
This book was an Ophra selection in its day and as such is very depressing, doom and gloom book, where the main character has to fight the whole world.
Unlike some of her other selections – this one keeps you entranced through the whole story.
And things get worse.Despite one disaster after another – Julie is a character who is just so lovable – she is very young, and very faithful to her religion, and loves her young husband.
Her story is really looking at life through the eyes of innocence – but as her character experiences life she learns and grows in ability.
This is an Oprah's Book Club selection by a prize winning author, which usually equates to the Midas Touch of Literature.
However, it didn't ring true for me.
Perhaps it was because it was a man writing a female character.
It reminded me a great deal of someone writing about the sea who had never seen it or smelled it or touched it.
There were whole passages in the book I started to skim because they screamed, "I have a degree in literature!
That rang true for me, while most of the novel did not.
I know a great many people loved this book, but sadly, I found it lacking.
This book, written by a North Carolina native who was born and raised in the very lands he writes about, sensitively brings back to life a now distant time, and a way of life that has all but completely vanished except in rural Appalachia.
Set in the Blue Ridge mountains, along the border of North and South Carolina, it is the story of a poor, young, newlywed couple's hardships and struggles during their first year of marriage while living in Gap Creek, South Carolina.
Written as a first-person narrative, Julie's story will leave you thinking.
I loved this book, the imagery was amazing.
The newlyweds and their progression through life working a farm under the watchful eye of the owner who is elderly.
The flood was frightening and saving the animals was so important and yet they lost so much.
The relationships between the characters was good, the old man was interesting and his death made me cry.
Julie worked like a dog, even being pregnant.
They learned and lived and loved and then lost so much that they needed to start over.
This is a book that stays with you and you think about it for a long time.
Beautifully written telling a story of marriage and day to day work of a rural family in the Carolina mountains. Reading this really takes reader back in time and place and felt was right there with Julie and all the work she did every day and held things together for those around her.
Interesting look into the life of 1900's South Carolina hills. Apparently the author based the book loosely on his grandparent's first year of marriage.But...such a hard, dark year it was! I was sad even when I wasn't reading the book.
After almost reading halfway through the book I just couldn't do it any more. This is just not the book for me. Very depressing and too much inappropriate stuff. I would rather use my time to read some more worthy...krb 4/21/17
Their trials really begin at hog killing time, and things just get worse and worse as the young couple struggles to deal with fire, flood, famine and a difficult mother-in-law.Told from the point of view of Julie, I sometimes thought the characterization of Hank and the others in the book was a little sketchy.
But then I realized that Julie told her story like a mountain woman would tell it.
If my grandmother had ever really sat down and told the story of her life, it would have read very much like the story of Julie and Hank.
