https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209506.Galactic_Patrol
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Swashbuckling Tradition: "Galactic Patrol" by E. E. "Doc" Smith(Original Review, 1980-08-08)I also picked up a couple of the Lensmen books after reading about them here in the SF-Lovers newsletter. Umm, as one of those narrow-minded types who happens to think the Golden Age of Science Fiction is right now, I recommend that anyone else who is tempted to do so scour your local used book stores before laying out real cash money for them.
I discovered E.E. Doc Smith when I was 8 (this is the right age to appreciate him), and was so entranced that I brought Galactic Patrol with me to school so that I could read the exciting conclusion during morning break.
A few days later, I was mortified to hear my teacher tell my parents how cute it was that "I was pretending to read this adult book that was obviously way past my reading level".
Well, she clearly knew as much about me as she did about E.E. Doc Smith.
Are you out there, third grade teacher?
When the series was later issued in book form Smith re-wrote parts of Book #1 Triplanetary to strengthen it's coonection to the series and book @2 First Lensmen was written AFTER Galactic Patrol.So, If you are curious about the Lensmen series, read book 3 first.
You can go back and read the prequels later.
Smith was one of the pioneers of space opera and you can see his influence on many other writers.I first read this at age 15 and it has a special place in my heart--it is the first SF book I can remember buying for myself!
Things like the ray-gun pistols being called DeLameters, for instance, gave a kind of reality to the books.
Simply calling them ray-guns of zap-pistols or whatever generic term you want makes them all kind of a gray mass in the mind.
It's like saying 9mm or magnum, or any of a dozen other terms instead of simply "pistol".
That's not always possible, but the relative simplicity of the novel makes it easier to pull apart, technically, than more complex novels.There's a lot of other things, too, which make the book "pop" for me, but I hope I've given you enough to want to go out and read the darn thing yourself.
Like overthrowing a tyrannical race when you're on run for your life with vital information.
His first guess was the ship was so experimental they didn't want to risk an experienced offer; the counter is that it's so experimental that experience would not be useful -- which I note is not incompatible with the first, especially since the officer then goes on to point out that for the serious risk of being blown to smithereens if its sole weapon backfires, he gets to keep command.So they set out, with the vital task of discovering how pirates are managing to do such damage to the shipping.
A planet full of storms, above-mentioned tyrannical race, Kinnison's being a bad patient (after being recovered in a technical stunt), a return to learn more skills, and a lot more occur as a consequence.
Wow, can you say space opera?
The protagonist, Kimball Kinnison, is a square-jawed, handsome wunderkind, just graduated from Galactic Patrol school and yet somehow put in charge of all kinds of missions of great importance.
The characters are symbols more than people, the action is non-stop, right to the last sentence of the book.
I couldn't keep all the space ships and ships drives straight, but it made little difference as I hurtled through the story.
(I used those contraptions in high school, younger readers probably don't even know what they are).

There it is, right under your feet: Galactic Patrol: The Lensman Book 3.Just like Bogart did, you pick it up and realize what you were standing on the whole time.
Galactic Patrol, originally Book One the in Lensman series (way before Smith, wrongly thinking his books didn't have the scope he needed, added two prequels), starts with a major leap, like most SF stories.
In a way, I see in the predecessors to Galactic Patrol a "prequel problem" that exists in a lot of properties.
That made this book a lot more interesting, and as I read ahead into Gray Lensman, I see that the same characters continue forth from here, as opposed to the "foundational books" Triplanetary and First Lensman.
The series is hitting its stride here, and I look forward to the rest of it more than ever.
This book was recommended as part of my research while writing Ridgerunners, as it covered some similar material (mainly space pirates). The language is dated and sometimes humorously anachronistic. It's a fun read, though, and one I would especially recommend for fans of hard sci-fi. It's part of a series, so readers may want to go to the first book in the "Lensman" series to start.
It is extremely obvious that this book/series was the inspiration for both "Green Lantern" and "Star Trek", and that alone makes the book worth reading. The negative side is that the book is extremely dated, the characters use a highly contrived and corny jargon/slang, and this book has, hands down, the most abrupt ending that I've ever read.
The last time I tried to read an E.E. Smith book I was so traumatized by the convoluted story and bad writing that I literally stopped reading fiction for several months.
One wing of its topmost floor seethed with tense activity, for that wing was the habitat of the lordly Five-Year Men, this was Graduation Day, and in a few minutes Class Five was due to report in Room A.”The whole book is written like this.Smith’s space cadet Kim Kinneson is the model of squeaky-clean superpowered whiteness that undoubtedly helped lead to the ostracization of science fiction by critics and the general public as nothing more than kiddie literature.
From the earliest days of real "space opera" Doc Smith (degree in chemical engineering) tells a tale of breakneck space flight, villainous villains, heroic heroes and spunky heroines.
Set amid a conflict between the forces of good embodied in the patrol and the forces of evil, characterized by the Boskone pirates, this fairly one dimensional tale presages many later stories, right up to the current day.
I found the highly armored and power assisted space armor to be quite predictive of many later innovations including, but not limited to Iron Man and The Expanse series.
Predictable, but entertaining in a 1930s sense.
On inspection, there's not a chapter break that will let me skip the introduction and go straight to the book in the audio version, so I guess I'll be waiting to read this book when the voter's packet comes out.
If I need to be told what happens in the story for me to be able to understand the story, then it's not a very good story.
If I don't need to be told what happens in the story, then let me enjoy the story and learn about all of this for myself in the way the author intended, please!
Things I love and hate about The Galactic Patrol specifically and the Lensman series in general:Love1. There is nonstop action in these books.2. There is no doubt who the heroes and villains are.3. The heroes have no doubt or moral ambiguity as the rightness of their cause.Hate1. The feminist in me cringes every time a female character is introduced.2. These books are written of teen boys, and I am far from that.I can’t help that I enjoy these novels so much they are not well written, but I can’
Things I love and hate about The Galactic Patrol specifically and the Lensman series in general:Love1.
There is nonstop action in these books.2.
There is no doubt who the heroes and villains are.3.
The heroes have no doubt or moral ambiguity as the rightness of their cause.Hate1.
The feminist in me cringes every time a female character is introduced.2.
These books are written of teen boys, and I am far from that.I can’t help that I enjoy these novels so much they are not well written, but I can’t help it, they just appeal to me as someone who enjoys questionable literature.
I simply couldn't resist this book, solely based on John C. Wright's nonreview of it. Classic space opera with purple prose is a particular weakness of mine. I was returning a book to Audible and so chose this to use up my refund credit.FINISHEDHo hum. I found this captured my interest only here and there, most notably when the hero was up against the head pirate. Otherwise, everything came much too easily to the hero ... which was probably fine in serial form, which was how the book was originally published, but was rather boring as a listening experience.
I tried to give this a fair chance, out of sheer historical interest, but I had to give up at page 60. Better books are more deserving of my time. The plotting makes no sense, the narrative pacing is way off, the purported heroes keep acting like villains, and the writing is plain bad.Not to say that there weren't good moments. My favorite is the "he explained unnecessarily" in the middle of an info-dump by the main character.
Groundbreaking and extremely important for scifi as it inspires a huge percent of the genre works today. It also has an interesting story and likable characters. For me, however, the writing is quite outdated as well and some of the ideas about people are way too old-fashioned for me. Still, the book is fun.
This is book 3 and the first book of the original Lensman series. From here on out they will only get better. I have to confess I have read this series 5 times over the last 20 years. Its a classic I keep on my shelf.
The entire Lensman series is a complete masterpiece of the space opera genre. Highly recommended.
The first stories published so the first one to read. From 1937. Neatly predicts Star Wars & Star Trek but is better than both.
it was good clean fun till Kinneson got promoted to Jesus (I mean, to gray lensman)
3.5 to 4 stars. 1939 Retro Hugo Award Nominee for Best Novel
Nonetheless, it would be a big mistake to think these books hold nothing for adults — I’ve introduce them to an adult friend who enjoyed them immensely.I, too, first met Kim Kinnison when I was a kid, in the original Astounding magazines that I inherited from my uncle.Chronologically, the first Lensman story was Galactic Patrol, from 1937–38.
Smith’s universe, although already huge at the outset of Galactic Patrol, expands as the series progresses.
He tries to infiltrate a pirate base and track down Helmuth but it goes wrong and he barely escapes, quite badly injured.
He then tries to infiltrate the pirates – now with ships the equal of the patrol – again, succeeding when they capture a hospital ship with, of course, MacDougall aboard.
He rescues her and all the nurses, gets a lead on Helmuth, and infiltrates Helmuth’s base despite the thought screens.
Not that you should only read it for that, the series is a classic for a reason.
While I could not fully describe it here I will list out what is more unique about it, and what sticks in my mind.One thing that was a driving force of the series was the development of technology, specifically weapons and other systems on ships.
By scale I mean that civilization (good guys) covered most of the galaxy, but it was not as simple as us having 2/3 of the galaxy settled and that part being safe and known.
Smith (at least in this book) has a lot of trouble giving characters unique voices or personalities, so they're all either stereotypes or blank slates.
The physical science is even more nonsensical, and the entire section of full-skeletal phrenology is some of the funniest pseudo-science I've ever read.This book isn't terrible, but it's one of the most implausible and thrown-together space operas I've ever read.
I doubt Smith had a real idea of writing sequels when he wrote this book.
You do have to read it as what it is, dated, classic Science Fiction, some of the first space operas.
As a kid the local library was stocked with Heinlein so Doc Smith was a late discovery for me.
Thus I read it a bit differently, skim through the fights, the to & fro of the science duel (in the background I keep hearing Tim Allen "More Power, More Power!) and concentrate more on the social structures, the large clashes, the, for then, novel problems and solutions.
Its great fun for a light read.I marked it down a bit since the Kindle edition is, of course, filled with errors
Five-stars for this work (technically Skylark) being one of the first Space Operas ever. I decided to read the two prequels ("Triplanetary" (1934) and "First Lensman"(1950)) before beginning the first novel: Galactic Patrol (1937).Smith's style is (just barely) a precursor to Heinlein, and it is wonderful to read the novel within that mental-framework. Out of the first three novels, my favorite was Triplanetary!
I can definitely see where a lot of "new" science fiction got inspiration from this series whether they realize it or not. There are long sections of the story that have the characters stuck in a location or predicament for what I feel are way too long but, overall, I feel the story was well told and leaves a lot open for the next story to pick up.
