https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8135807-rock-me
See if I don't." ~Brian  This book was JUST what I needed to read right now: heavily tattooed and kinkily pierced bad boy hero with big heart, super cute and very steamy love story, no big bad guy, laugh out loud moments, and a happy ending.
Its hot, steamy, sweet and leaves you with a happy feeling :)Some quotes: "Do you love this girl?""I'm fucking crazy about her.""Fucking crazy I've gathered.
But I asked if you  love  her.
I asked if you'll say the words.
I'm talking true, enduring, unconditional, hold-her-hair-while-she's-puking-from-morning-sickness love.""Hell, yes, I'll say the words!
5 stars!  The other day, a book group I'm in asked "What was the first indie book you read?" There are 4-5 I binge read right in a row, and Rock Me was one of them. Just thinking about this book gave me the itch to re-read it, and since it's been a few years, I jumped right in. I read this book for the first time over 5 years ago, and it was just as good as I remembered in my re-read. Candace annoyed me still, but Brian made up for her annoyance plus some!
Wow, am I glad I didn't wait any longer to read this awesome story!I adored Brian!
His piercings and ink nearly drove me to distraction and had me searching the web for more information.
It's his penis piercing and damn!
Her 'journey' to freedom was sometimes heartbreaking for me because I know what it's like to be in her shoes.Overall I enjoyed this story, though there were a couple times when resolutions seemed rushed, but all in all, I loved this one and will read it again!I'm hoping to find more stories by Cherrie Lynn!
2 stars.I hated the bloody annoying cow of a heroine. She was whiny, weepy, bitchy, EXTREMELY IMMATURE and unfair. I liked Brian, though.Original rating 3.5 stars.I'm downgrading Rock Me to 2 stars.Read November 2012Rating downgraded December 3, 2015
4 STEAMY BRIAN STARSI'm starting off with a picture of MY Brian. The  ONLY  man I could picture the whole book was Carey Hart and let me tell you that that man is the quintessential tattooed bad boy!!!! He makes me sizzling HOT. I literally drool over him ...AHHHHH... I'm in lust!!!Candice (the heroine) is sick of her parents running her life. They're always trying to control her and every move she makes. She's the good girl and is always doing what's expected of her. So she decides she's gonna
man I could picture the whole book was Carey Hart and let me tell you that that man is the quintessential tattooed bad boy!!!!
I'm in lust!!!Candice (the heroine) is sick of her parents running her life.
They're always judging his choices and lifestyle and making him feel bad.
When Candice shows up she's like a ray of sunshine in his life and he's drawn to how warm and loving she is.
Candice and Bryan had to work through some family issues and Candice had to learn how to stand up for herself and be more independent.
I would highly recommend this fun, quick, steamy and heartwarming book.
I adored Brian. I thought his dialogue was f'ing brilliant. Cherrie Lynn did a fabulous job with him. :)
Great read! I do think Brian needs to dump Candace and hook up with me. ;-)
When Candace took some time away from Brian so she could think, I cannot tell you how much I admired her strength in taking that step back; if nothing else than to be sure that Brian wasn't some kind of rebellion against her parents.
This story wasn't a light, airy read, it was heavy in places where it needed to be, which in my opinion, made it much more believeable.I've come to the understanding in life that if you stay in a relationship or decide to get out, you must earn it- either way.
4 starsOverall, I really liked this book. I will admit to being confused with the abrupt decisions Candace made toward the end of the book. However, Brian more than made up for that issue. I couldn't help but fall completely and utterly in love with him. He is the reason I gave this book 4 stars.
However, Candace just bitches about it, does nothing and allows her parents to even pick her friends.Enter Brian, the hot tattoo artist.
This is a man her cousin had dated and Candace always loved.
To celebrate her 23rd birthday, Candace decides to get a tattoo (in a place where her parents can't see, of course!) and Brian's the man for the job.Some spoilers...Thus starts a relationship where Candace is constantly running hot and cold.
She wants to have her man without any problems with her parents.
At the end, Brian is the one that does everything!And BTW, the way that problem was solved was VERY unrealistic.
It was a wonderfully written romance with just a hint of Romeo & Juliet style to it.Brian Ross comes from the right family from the right part of town, but he's all wrong...
And he has caught Candace Andrews eye.
Candace falls hard for Brian, almost on sight...
Brian on the other hand is a little harder to read.
and do her beautiful little tattoo!
Brian and Candace face almost impossible odds with the family dynamics, and their relationship takes several major hits its the process..
LOVED IT!!!Here is how I see them..Brian Ross..
I am giving this 5 stars for the penis piercings alone!!
Hahaha!
Seriously, this was a Fantastic read, I am so in love with Brian, in all his tattooed and pierced glory!!
But aside from his total hotness, he is an incredible man.
I knew I'd love him when I got meet him in Unleashed, and although at first I thought Candace an unlikely match for him I now see the error of my ways and I loved her almost as much!!
I need to thank my GR friends for introducing me to Cherrie Lynn, I can't wait for more incredible reads from her!!
2.5 starsThis could have been such an awesome book. I loved the premise of it, loved the hero, Brian. Totally swoon-worthy. But what a fucking crappy heroine. Oh my god. Candace was such a pushover, pain in the ass, little bitch. Ugh. I don't know how he did it, I personally would have given up on her a long time ago.Still, I liked the writing style and I will definitely give the next one a chance!
O.M.G. this story! It absolutely loved it. At times it made me crazy, but overall a fantastic read. So glad I finally got around to reading this one! Thanks bestie! <3
Candace and Brian had a sweet attraction to each other (though, it bordered unhealthy (think 1-step down from "Beautiful Disaster") and it seemed almost solely based on sex time).
Still, the 2 main reasons why I REFUSE to give this book a full 3 stars:THE GIRL HAS A FREAKING WATERBED!
Brian tells Candace to take her hair down and the book says she removes her SCRUNCHIE!
I think SCRUNCHIES went out even before WATERBEDS!
If I didn't know better (meaning, I don't know any man named Cherrie) I might have thought this was written by a man...that would be the only forgivable reason to include a WATERBED and a SCRUNCHIE!Sheesh.
One star may seem harsh, because I did actually manage to finish it, but on a basic level, it was pretty weak, even for a fluffy romance novel.
Candace was one of the most insufferable characters I have encountered in a while.
The plot was extremely choppy - with the characters running hot and cold, and Candace fluctuating between declaring her love one minute and heading for the hills the next minute.
It felt like she was constantly making weird decisions just to create drama, which made it hard to really buy into it at all.
The sexy parts were pretty sexy, but probably would have been hotter if she wasn't quite so virginal.
I forgot how awesome Brian was in this book.
First read 11/24/2012 5 Stars What a GREAT find in Cherrie Lynn.
IMHO Brian ranks right up there with Lauren Dane's Brody Brown.
This authors writing style reminds me a lot of Lauren Dane's.
This is a great face paced story.
I have to say that Candace got on my nerves A LOT toward the end, but we get our HEA so it's all good!
But as long as Ms. Lynn cranks out another fanfreakingtastic book number three, I can wait for my fix to catch up with Brian and Candace.
EXCELLENT!!!! ♥♥♥♥  My Brian.....  THIS BOOK WAS HOT!!!   IT WAS A LITTLE ANGSTY AT TIMES AND MADE FEEL ALL MUSHY....  IT WAS SOMETIMES SWEET AND ROMANTIC   I LOVED IT!!! EVEN WHEN IT PISSED ME OFF.. I STILL LOVED IT!! THE END
When someone recommended this book about a fun-loving, bad-boy tattoo shop owner, it was hard to pass up.Reading this took me back in time, when life was just about having fun and enjoying the moment.
For a steamy book, it was well done.
There was more plot than porn.The whiplash indecision of the heroine did annoy me over and over, but Brian was so incredible, he sort of buffered her behavior.
I didn't want the hero to fall so hard so fast, but what do you do?
That was a bit rushed, but AGAIN...Brian is incredible.
If anything, read this book for Brian. I mean what's not to like, multiple tattoos and piercings :) As for Candace, I liked her and didn't like her throughout the book. The thing I disliked about her was her back and forth back and forth. She said she loved Brian, but then said she didn't know if she could be with him. My god woman...Grow Up! This book was both sweet and hot.
Instead of standing up to them and trying to come to some sound of understanding or compromise she allowed them to treat her like a doormat again.Brian was the only redeeming factor in this book (and only reason I rated it 2 stars and not 1) and I loved him but I really couldn't understand why he wanted such a wimp of a woman who obviously didn't love him enough to try and fight for him.
4.52 stars  Sanaa, will understand!Candace and Brian are from two different worlds. She's the good girl whose parents dictate her life and he's the bad boy who owns a Tattoo Parlor. Her family doesn't like him and comes between them to break them up. Candace and Brian find themselves fighting for a relationship that her family thinks will fail. After completing this story I went back and reread A Very Naughty Xmas which is novella about their Christmas a year and half after this book.Kara, thank you for introducing me to your book boyfriend. SERIES:
  
  
  
  Novella:
  (#2.5)60th book for 2013
Candace gets a great idea to go get a tattoo for her birthday and she won't have it done by anyone else but Brian.
She gets her tattoo and something more when he slips her his number on the way out and she returns in kind.
Not only is the chemistry between Candace and Brian great but the family dynamics that come into play also brought depth to the story.
The way in which both Candace and Brian deal with their family gave as strong character development and not a simple HEA for the ending.
LOVED THIS STORY!!
(once I started this book, I couldn't put it down)Brian is *sigh* friggn AMAZING!!
I loved that He didn't change who he was to accommodate his family or Candace.
...and Candace became the women I wanted her to be right from the very beginning.
Strong, intelligent, sassy, and independent (she was no longer a victim, but somebody empowered).
What I liked most about Candace is the fact that she didn't try to change Brian, but let herself be who she wanted to be, and that person 'fit' perfectly with Brian.Really liked the characters, story, romance, and the 'sex' was off the charts HAWT!!
AMAZING!!
4 stars!!! in not more into guy with tattoo and have a barbel????? lolz...if you've read this you'll know where..so im giving this book 4 star.. The story was good with bryan & candice..it like a modern Romeo & juliet where family interfere with their kids affair..with lots of steamy parts....but in the end true love prevails..lolz:)
In the beginning of the book, she's this innocent virgin who wants to branch out and be her own person away from her family; she's determined to get Brian to notice her and be bold by getting her little tattoo (GASP!!), and I loved her when she was chasing him.
She stands up for herself and Brian tells them off, and I'm thinking "you go, girl!!", but then in the next scene she's suddenly talking about how she needs her family and doesn't want a relationship with him to come between them??!!
The Virgin Princess Candace falls hard for the tattooed, pierced and utterly delectable Brian.Living on her own, Candace is ruled with an iron fist from her very controlling parents.
She has to decide whether she’s willing to risk the only person she has loved from her very snobbish family.
Brian also comes for a wealthy family but is an outcast and doesn’t live the high society life.
Brian and Candace are two complete polar opposites, but somehow they mesh together beautifully.
Candace understands Brian and takes him completely for who he is.
Loved it!
Candace and Brian are amazing characters and I connected with both of them. Though I wish I would have been a little more invested in the story. I just felt like it was missing a little something but I did like the novel as a whole. Longer review to come soon!
There were things about this book that would normally have me rolling my eyes, cringing, scoffing, or doing all three (namely: a goatee, a water bed, love tunnels, plundering, and an annoying heroine), but I JUST COULDN'T WITH THIS BOOK.The reason?Brian.I CANNOT WITH THAT MAN.He was, I think, my favorite hero in an erotica book, hedging out Brady from Animal Magnetism , which is saying something.Brian was...such a wonderful contradiction.
That and the annoying heroine are the reasons why I knocked this sucker down to a 4 star rating.Now. What I need is more Brian.
Brian is the owner of a tattoo parlor, is a sexy pierced and tattooed guy with a tendency to curse and to speak everything that goes through is mind.
Brian and Candace always had a “thing” for each other, so when they meet again several months after his breakup with her cousin things start to happen.
This book is full of romance, sweet moments, SEXY TATTOOED GUYS, really steamy scenes, some funny moments and very good characters.
So, if you have a thing for really sexy tattooed boys with an attitude, a little possessive but extremely sweet after you’ve got to know them, you have to read this book.
