https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835443.The_Demon_in_the_House
Many of the characters from High Risings, the first of Thirkell’s Barsetshire books, are back and it was a pleasure to catch up with old friends.Several sections of the story evoke with breath-taking clarity the mostly unruly but sometimes sublime passions of childhood--especially chapter 5, which is titled Paradise Pool because Tony discovers a particularly lovely view of the lake where a group of grown-ups and children have gathered to picnic and swim.
Laura Morland must be a saint to put up with the antics of her son, Tony. But it's those antics and especially his dialogue that kept me laughing throughout the book.
In this, one of Thirkell's earlier books, Tony is 12 years old and though it's interesting to meet this younger version of the man that keeps popping up in so many of her other novels, a little of him goes a long way.
Nevertheless in spite of how much I dislike Tony, I continue to enjoy these wonderfully irrelevant novels even though as Laura Morland herself (Angela Thirkell's persona) admits about her own books, they're all pretty much the same in the sense that nothing much ever happens in them!
I just love Angela Thirkell's books.They are beguiling novels of town and country.Tony Morland is a wonderful character,an irresistable and maddening twelve year old.He gets up to many antics to the despair of his mother.He is a charming, infuriating creature to the adults.My favourite so far.Kept me entertained on a dreary wet day in Cornwall.
I loved this book so much. It doesn't really have any plot. It just follows a mother's relationship with her youngest son and her concerns and fears about him growing up. But it is so sweet.
Thirkell did such an amazing job with Tony, capturing his incredibly annoying personality thorough his verbal diarrhea. He's so cocky and self-sure, and there are only glimpses of self-doubts. I think I cheered each time Dr. Ford told him to "shut up." The other dialogue also just shines; it's so unique and personal to each character. I think I could really pick out the character from reading unidentified lines. I laughed a lot throughout the book. This was my first of what will be many Barsetshire books--a great introduction!
It seems that the schoolboy Tony Morland was such a success with readers of High Rising, Thirkell decided to devote an entire book to him.
Not a very long book, fortunately, because although Tony is endearing he is also quite annoying.
Thirkell invents some pretty interesting mischief for him, and makes us think that he will turn out to be a nice young man -- that is, if he doesn't get killed in the war which, at this point, nobody knows is looming.
My favorite part of this book is Tony's vision of "Paradise Pool," a glimpse of a pond framed by a stone bridge.
Didn't think I could hate an AT book, but dear God! ONE chapter of young Tony is more than enough. I know she was writing about her own kid(s), and she's excellent at conveying their foibles. But gimmeabreak! George Knox also runs on and on, but at least he's not the star of the show. Not sure I can even finish reading this. Suggest duct tape--either over his mouth, or to seal the book. A child only HIS mother could love. All in all, I favor Dr. Ford's views, telling Tony, "Shut up."
Very different from Angela Thirkell's other books. I think it's only the second book, chronologically speaking. It's entirely the adventures of Laura Morland's youngest son, 12-year-old Tony. He's mostly exasperating, a know-it-all enthusiast of trains, bicycles, horses, and most other subjects under the sun.
LOVE this book. I have an extemely old hard back copy of it that my mom picked up at a library book sale in the 60's. I have read it several times and love it every time. Tony is my absolute favorite fiction character of all time.
The story of Laura Morland's son Tony, who first featured in High Rising. He's a thoroughly ghastly child, but a great character who makes for an entertaining read.
A fun read, I have another one of Thirkell's books which I will read at some point. Tony is quite a character!
Although the exploits of a talkative and precocious child are not my favorite theme, I must admit that I laughed aloud several times.
She's not Austen, but at some point, six novels isn't enough.
More tales of young Tony Morland's escapades - a delight to read, especially for those of us who have sons.
Tony is really annoying, which is sort of the point, but still didn't make for an amazing read.
I wish I had discovered this author fifty years ago!
I can quite see how an entire book dedicated to the thoroughly unquashable Tony Morland might seem quite off putting, but this is honestly delightful! It's out of print, and the prices for used copies are shockingly high but thankfully my library had a copy. If you stumble across a copy for a reasonable price please don't let Tony deter you, even his biggest detractor Dr Ford ("Shut up Tony") would have to admit it's worth a read!
Extremely annoying and yet occasionally endearing...I didn't enjoy this one as much as the first two books in the series, but it was still very good fun.
I really enjoyed hearing more from some of the characters from High Rising.I love Laura Morland (a fantastic character!) and my favourite bit of the book was reading about her (and the way she reacts to some of the dreadful things Tony does...)If you really loved High Rising (like I did), then I would say go for it!
If you only liked it, maybe read one of her other books in the series instead.
3 stars. Tony Morland is a wonderful embodiment of all the annoying yet lovable traits of the young teenage boy (he is 13). I found the way Thirkell does his mother Laura's interior dialogue particularly funny. The romantic subplot was a disappointment, seeming to be tacked on to the end of the story - not very convincing or even very interesting. I did enjoy seeing all the local gentry of the High Rising area again though.
3½ stars. Tony Morland is a wonderful embodiment of all the annoying yet lovable traits of the young teenage boy (he is 13). I found the way Thirkell does his mother Laura's interior dialogue particularly funny. The romantic subplot was a disappointment, seeming to be tacked on to the end of the story - not very convincing or even very interesting. I did enjoy seeing all the local gentry of the High Rising area again though.
Too much of the same thing! Tony Morland is his mother Laura's pride and joy even though she hates his behavior. She and most of her Barsetshire neighbors have no control over this egotistical motor-mouth. Tony, always extolling his own virtues, is unaware that his talents are limited and that he is a pest. Individual chapters illustrate the creativity and destruction of this child who drives everyone else up a wall.
Extremely funny. ETA: I've read that some people think that her attitude towards the magnificent Tony and his pals is harsh. I think that it's fairly typical of the day - and even later. It reminded me somewhat of the magnificent Shirley Jackson's "Life Among the Savages" and "Raising Demons."
It's rare I laugh out loud while reading a book but this one made me do it! It's the first novel I've read by Thirkell and now I want to read them all. There's a darkness that seeps through the life of the main character's suffering single mother which makes the humor all the more poignant. This book could also be called "Mommy's Little Monster."
Not sure whether to give this book a 2 or a 3. Tony Morland has to be the most annoying and irritating character I've ever read about. Since the book is well written, I gave it a 3. I will read more in the series since I've discovered that this hellish child will only appear randomly ( or not at all) in the other books.
Another charming book from Angela Thirkell, much like High Rising, whith the same characters. A little less structured.
Fun fluff, perfect for a beach or an airplane.
In many ways hilarious, except that we learn Tony is 14 years old.
His constant bragging about his expertise on every subject imaginable would be somewhat charming in, say, a very bright six-year-old, and maybe it's because his older brothers are so much older, and were never around to take him down a peg or two.
I have noticed this in other British writers of the 1930s, that young characters seem very childish.
Having been an elementary librarian, and a fan of "young adult" fiction, I find it hard to take.
Too bad, because I love his mother as a character.
Okay, I'm finally starting to see connections and why this is considered a series. A loose series, to be sure, but a series nonetheless. We re-enter the world of High Rising, and this time the story is focused on Tony and his adventures during school holidays. My heavens, how Tony can talk! Without end! And I admire how well Angela Thirkell develops the character of Wesendonck, who in contrast to Tony, barely speaks at all. Tony is exasperating and the novel is comic and a quiet pleasure to read.
I really enjoyed this little novel from the Chronicles of Barsetshire series. Long suffering Laura Morland puts up with her youngest son, Tony, who knows everything about everything and is quick to tell all who surround him about his vast knowledge. Dr. Ford's common verbal exchange with Tony usually starts with "Shut up!" WWII is foreshadowed when Tony talks to Stoker, family maid, about Hitler in Germany.
As much as I enjoy the Barsetshire books, Tony and George Knox together-- where it was completely clear that George Knox and other men of Mrs. Morland's circle were the models Tony based himself on-- were mindnumbingly irritating. (Mrs. Morland's fear of making him 'soft' was even worst. Sylvia was the only tolerable character, and Dr. Ford was an idiot.) Had Tony (or even a female Tony) been mine, they would have been firmly quashed and eventually smacked, to my shame . Juvenile mansplaining.
