https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260025.Test_of_the_Twins
Both of those saved their respective sub-series from hopeless mediocrity after very disappointing middle books, and ended up making both trilogies look like the legends of fantasy that they are.This book still had some of the things I hated about the second book, but some of the scenes in this one were amazing.
And of course, it made me look even more forward to start exploring this huge universe for real.I have now finished the two classic DragonLance trilogies, and must say I am positively surprised overall.
I thought it would be a disaster though, so it might be hard not to be positively surprised.
Illustrated with the same Matt Stawicki painting that graced the most recent paperback edition, this release continues the hardcover releases of the Dragonlance Chronicles in 2003.The authors Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman should need little introduction to fans of Dragonlance, between them they have written all of the core books of the Dragonlance novel line, creating some of the best known and most loved characters of Dungeons and Dragons literature (many of whom, beside the twins - Tanis, Kitiara, Lord Soth, Lord Gunthar, Tika - continue their roles in this novel).
The new editions are beautiful re-releases and the words on their pages more than stand the test of time.Buy this book if you (a) enjoyed the other books of the Dragonlance Chronicles, Legends, or War of Souls, or (b) enjoyed the Sovereign Stone trilogy by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman.Final Grade: A+
For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?That's proba
This almost got bumped down to three stars, because I cannot begin to tell you how much I still don't care about Tanis and Kitiara, but while the good bits were smaller than in the first two books, they were in some ways even sweeter.
Crysania buys a clue!
Caramon manages to find a small bit of balance between total dependence on Raistlin and total repudiation of him!
Raistlin remains fascinatingly ambiguous!
(Did he stop Takhisis at the last minute because he realized that winning would be wrong, or did he stop because he realized that winning would be no fun at all for him?
AAJSDHFKSAHDFASESFDNSD.Okay, let me just say that I haven’t read any Raistlin Majere books since I was ten.
I read and reread and reread and reread a hundred times scenes, chapters, SENTENCES that involved him.It started with this series — Time of the Twins had a gorgeous cover that stole my heart.
With results of an everlasting love for a series due to its complete majesty.) Anyway; I since read what feels like every book by Margaret Weis & Tracy Hickman.
I was a Raistlin junkie.I need to read these books again.

After feeling the first book in this trilogy felt rushed and thoroughly enjoying the second one and watching the characters really come into their own, this one took my breathe away and broke my heart.
What can I say, I'm a kender loving fool!But, as has been the case throughout all of the books, my heart was with Raistlin.
It was my desire to see if my feelings about him were going to be validated in the end that made me devour this book in one sitting.
Seriye 2-3 yıl önce Ruh Döveni ve Silah Kardeşliği ile başladığımdan karakterlerin geçmişi hatırlamalarında bende onlarla birlikte hatırladım. Bu yüzden bu ve önceki kitapta sahnelerin dramatikliğini arttırışını istesem böyle denk getiremezdim. Fakat ne yazık ki bazı karakterlerin - Crysania veya Kitiara gibi- ve olayların zayıf, sorulara çok açık şekilde işlendiğini düşündüğümden kitabı sevmek istediğim kadar sevemedim. Güzel bir kitaptı, İthaki devamını bastığında da devam edeceğim.
We're back in the present for this one (after a brief sidetrip somewhen unexpected), as Caramon and Tas race to try to save Krynn from unspeakable horrors, joining forces with an old friend along the way.
It certainly was (for the characters, I mean, not the book).
He's not perfect, he's playing both sides against the middle, and he has a couple of extremely unpleasant things happen to him on the way through.
He's a marvellous blend of evil and Trying To Do The Right Thing, and so seemed much more real in some ways, since he's not as firmly pigeonholed one way or another as some of the other characters.
I don't know that I am even going to read anything else in this series, because all of the characters in this book were whiny little bitches.
These men cried more than anyone I know who saw the beginning of Finding Nemo (it was sad!).Not to mention, Raistlin died and Crysania didn't.
Terrible ending.
Crysania was such a horrible person.
Oh, and can I say Paladine= Christianity?
Ugh.I loved, loved, loved the original Dragonlance books.
Now the only reason I finished this one was because I was hoping Crysania and Caramon would both die.
I'm going back to reading Steven King novels.
Very nice conclusion to the original trilogies!
Nice to see the return of old friends (Tanis) and old enemies (Kitiara, Lord Soth) and some character arcs closed!
This was a very satisfying conclusion.
If I never read another Dragonlance book, I could move on and be happy.
I still enjoy the world and I would love to read more about Lord Soth, but I can move on feeling satisfied here.
I definitely see why everyone has said I had to read ALL SIX of the original novels!
The first trilogy left me kind of cold, but this one makes up for it!
Kirja oli pettymys jopa henkilölle, joka velloo tällä hetkellä teinivuosiensa Dragonlance-nostalgiassa. Edelliset osat olivat todella viihdyttäviä kaikessa ylitsevuotavassa dramaattisuudessaan ja suhteellisen käsittämättömine juonenkäänteineen. Nyt ainoina valopilkkuina olivat Tanis, joka oli suhteellisen done kaikkien ja kaiken kanssa, ja Dalamar, jonka Raistlin-suhteesta sietäisi kirjoittaa gradu.
"Dragonlance: Legends" is actually a good series. And that's weird, because game-inspired books do tend to suck big time. I give most credit for complexity of Raistlin's character and for the fact that Caramon suffers from PTSD. And that's just great, because too often fantasy heroes tend to be completely immune to distress and we know that human mind doesn't work that way.
What a satisfying ending to such a wonderful, epic story. I'm gonna miss these characters tbh.Here's hoping I can get my hands on more Krynn books in the future!
Serinin bu kısmına kadar okuduğum en iyi kitap buydu.
Soluksuz bitirdim, her şey çok güzeld- Tam burada İthaki araya girip kitabı mahvetti.
Böyle önemli bir seriyi Türkçe'ye kazandırmak gibi bir görev üstleniyorsun.
Takdir ediyoruz, destekliyoruz, alıyoruz, okuyoruz.
Ama bari okuyucuya biraz saygı göstermek adına bir son okuma falan yapsanız?
Kitabın ilk sayfasında yok editör, yok seri danışmanı, 6 tane isim yazıyor.
Ama kitapta belki 10 tane nokta yerine yazılmış Ç harfi var.
Evet, ben de bazen klavyede bişi yazarken bu hataya düşüyorum ama sen kitap yayınlıyorsun ya, hiç mi kontrol mekanizman yok?
300 sayfalık kitapta belki 100 kelimede yazım hatası vardır.
En azından laurana saçmalıkarı seviyesinde saçmalıklar yoktu. Sonu başından beri tahmin ettiğim gibi bitti, diğer kitapları gibi. Raistlin gibi bir karaktere daha iyi bir son yazılabilirdi ama neyse ki tasslehoff gibi bir karakter vardı da eğlenerek okuduğum kısımlar oldu.
I waited untill I finished all three books so I could compare before rating.
It started out great but certainly went downhill from there:Time of the twins: 5 starsWar of the twins: 4 starsTest of the twins: 3 starsI borrowed these books from a friend.
Gotta love that old book smell!Overall I had less issues with these books than with the dragonlance chronicles.
I still don’t get him but I love him!I grew more and more tired of Tasslehoff as the books went along.
This was probably why my ratings went down a bit.
Let’s face it: these books are kinda pulpy but way exciting!
In my opinion, (which admittedly was formed when I was much more inexperienced reader and might be a little foggy from the passage of time) this series has everything a reader might expect from a good fantasy read.
Very well written and distinct characters, passion, drama, magic, more magic, exotic locations, time travel (oh yes!), frenetic pace, excitement and a grand finale!!
Even though this is typically a plot-driven series, the main fuel behind the plot are the characters and their aims and deeper wishes.Seriously, if you're a fan of fantasy, just go read it!
DragonLance: Chronicles and Legends are two trilogies that hold a really special place in my heart.
So much so that I can't really divvy them up into separate reviews.
I don't even think I could give an objective review of the books.
But if I know this: if I've had to replace a book from over-reading, that's amazing.
I've had to replace these 6 books so many times that I keep spare copies around just in case.
True story.Chronicles Trilogy:Dragons of Autumn Twilight Dragons of Winter Night Dragons of Spring Dawning Legends Trilogy:Time of the Twins War of the Twins Test of the Twins
Fifth book of the commute, rounding out the "Legends" trilogy. Really not much to add that hasn't already been covered in my review of the first two volumes. The trilogy finishes with a bang, a satisfying but bittersweet conclusion. Again, it's the characterization of Caramon and Raistlin and the dynamics of their brotherly relationship that sets this book a notch above most others in the genre.
A good conclusion to a slow starting trilogy and is it wrong that I'm glad Kitiara finally got what she deserved? Yeah I didn't think so another wonderful addiction for me. :)
Raistlin Majere remains a favorite.
The second volume in the Legends trilogy kept the story moving.
This time it was just filler - what did any of it matter compared to The Dark Queen coming escaping the Abyss or Raistlin becoming a god?
It is their choices and love, in the end, that make the difference.Raistlin is finally powerful in this portion of the story (though he is back in his weak body).
In my review of the previous volume I named Paladine as the god of gambling, because in both trilogies he risks the greatest evil (the Dark Queen escaping the Abyss) for the potential of the greatest good.
That Dragonlance spin-off novels continued to be published like clockwork for the following 20 years is all the proof needed that Weis and Hickman had captured the imagination of a profitable market, and yet their cache and credibility as writers took a nose-dive dramatically quickly and although they went on to produce the superior Death Gate Cycle (and many other series I’m sadly not yet familiar with – I’ll rectify that at some point!) fashions quickly changed and the semi-conservative high fantasy of the 80s was swept away by the indepth characters and realism of a Robin Hobb or George Martin.
Test of the TwinsDefinitely the best of the set!
I don't mean to be so hard on the first two, but they weren't what I was expecting and the recapping done in Test is sufficient to set up the climax.
They kept it easy to follow as well as smartly paced with more creative elements regarding magic use.
Caramon has never been so interesting and Raistlin, though inherently bad, ends doing the right thing again.
The ending is bittersweet as always when characters are killed off, but it was a solid ending following a well balanced exercise in storytelling.
I have to say that I enjoy the time-travel aspect and the ending of the series.
I liked her development and she finally thought before acting.
I liked the development the characters went through in general, especially as they all gained background.
I really liked the future and how it was predicted.
I loved the atmosphere there and in hell.
The direct surroundings were described in a nice way, so you could imagine everything in your head.
The style is nice, though some descriptions were done twice.
I loved the different perspectives and the ending!
there is a good 50% of this taken up by Tanis half elven who has shown up seldom anywhere else in legends and is a bloody boring character used to obviously flesh out the book, between him and caramon and tasslehof wandering the desert the first half of this book is barely worth skimming.but man, the second half and ending if this are so satisfying.
definitely worth the trouble of reading everything up until the end.
you can actually feel their relief, because you've been through an arm and a leg of strenuous boring reading.
This series did not disappoint. Although I was nervous during the second book at where theae characters were going, I thoroughly enjoyed this second trilogy. (Reviewing the whole trilogy here).The one takeaway that will stay with me from this series (and Chronicles) is people underestimate love. It is often overlooked or mistaken as weakness.I will remember this series fondly. I read Chronicles in high school and never finished this series. I am glad I finally did now.
the end has come. darkness and light mingle into a haze and alliances are made and broken as the world of Krynn screams and shudders under the great events. the future is known and must change but that means more sacrifices. Caramon will do his part finally seeing clearly the first time in his life and Raistlin will be faced with himself having defeated anyone else. in the end, everyone is rewarded for his efforts either receiving or giving but the dragon wars are finally over. for now...
Difficult to choose between "liked it" and "it was okay".With the story almost entirely about the twins and kender, this book starts dragging in story from the first series to tie up things about Tanis and Kitiara. It felt very unrelated.Otherwise, the book tied up things nicely. But the flow of story wasn't as nice as the other two books.
