https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89369.The_Te_of_Piglet
I only made it about half-way through this book and that was a struggle--I continued only because I had such fond memories of "The Tao of Pooh." In my opinion, this is not a worthy sequel.
All the sweetness and warmth of the first book, the Mile-esque style of writing, is gone.
So, too, is much discussion of Taoism--and even of Piglet, for that matter.
Rather, it seems a soapbox for the author's disillusionment/disgust with Western culture.
Would have been much more effective if he kept the focus on Taoism's good points, rather than using so much ink slamming the West.
Thistles and nettles from the bog you know, but quite good when cooked in buttered broth.
That book has the wrong title, to start with.
Always something going on.""You know, Eeyore, I can't help but feel that this time this Tao and Te fellow has gone over the line.
So I do think he should have called it The Fen.""I see, yes.
No, no, Piglet would never do.""Come to think of it, as we said before, the Animal that whines most is you, Eeyore.""Why thank you very much.
He whines about Eeyores.
Why don't we call the book The Fen of Eeyore?""Oh, my goodness.
For a school of thought like Taoism that has had some sort of inclusiveness for women in it from the beginning (centuries, now), it seems a really weird hill to die on.I'll confess, I nearly put the book down at that point.
I was reminded of Dorothy Parker (as Constant Reader) reviewing The House at Pooh Corner -- "And it is that word 'hummy,' my darlings, that marks the first place in The House at Pooh Corner at which Tonstant Weader fwowed up." What the hell, Hoff?I had a brief urge to edit an expurgated version of the Te of Piglet with the politics dialed back several notches (and a hundred pages or so) so that the lovely Taoist concepts can shine forth.
However, in the ten years that passed between that publication and this one, Benjamin Hoff seems to have grown into a grouchy, cantankerous old man decrying the youth of America and using this book as a soapbox for his own political rants that have naught to do with Taoism, Te, Piglet or Pooh.The book starts off fine, with some basic introductions of Taoism and Te, but things start to go downhill with the chapter titled "The Eeyore Effect." Midway through this chapter, Hoff suddenly starts on his own personal tangents, ranting about everyone from the news media to modern educators to so-called "Amazon Feminists" intent on converting all nouns to gender-neutral descriptions because they are both "antimasculine" and "overmasculine" and have "no respect for the feminine."Don't ask me to make sense of that.
There's very little effort made to tie it back to Piglet and the other Pooh characters and quite a bit of political ranting.The few points he tried to make about Piglet he'd already made in the Tao of Pooh - complete with the same examples from the same stories.
There's very little Piglet and an abundance of Hoff's own opinions on how Taoism/Buddhism relate to modern society.
He discusses everything from feminism being horrible, to smoking, to farming and fertilization practices, to the evils of radiation and therefore modern electronics.While I agree with some of the points he made, I didn't pick up the book to read how he's applied Taoism to his political philosophy and world view.
2.5 stars...I don't know, this sequel just didn't do it for me. I loved the first book, absolutely loved it, but this one seemed...lacking somehow.
At first I enjoyed it for what I was learning about Chinese philosophy. But then he gets very political about current events in 1992, which, while also being outdated now, are not as relevant to the timeless themes he is discussing as he would think. He gets on his soapbox about his personal views, which I also see as off target and an annoyance. I wanted to read about Te and it’s relationship to Piglet, not on how he feels all the past presidents have overlooked environmental protection. Actua
But then he gets very political about current events in 1992, which, while also being outdated now, are not as relevant to the timeless themes he is discussing as he would think.
He gets on his soapbox about his personal views, which I also see as off target and an annoyance.
But he gets on such a strong winded tangent with the details that no one, over 10 years later, are going to be impressed by what he is referencing.
He has made this book outdated and so I would not necessarily recommend it to anyone.
Plus, his view is so negative.
In fact, this book tends to go off into explanation far more than crafting examples using the character.But the single unforgivable part of this book is the large amount of soap box talk the author throws in to the book.
He has a clear stance on government and social issues going on at the time of his writing the book and he uses points between talking over principles to...well rage on about them.Oh, and he basically claims a doomsday is coming.The Tao of Pooh was a delightful introduction into the tenets of Taoism using timeless characters.
Poorly played, author.I highly recommend the Tao of Pooh.
The author, Hoff, tries to explain living with virtue and in harmony with the natural world or  Te. Hoff, does a good job of using previously written works to illustrate his points, but comes short when using Milne's characters.
In fact as the book went on, I began to dislike the character of little Piglet.My major gripe with this book is that Ben Hoff decided to pull out his soapbox and get all spill his personal politics all over his book's information.
The book is supposed to demonstrate how Piglet in the original A.A. Milne writings personified Te, or 'Virtue in Action'.
To illustrate this the author wrote a bunch of new situations for Piglet.
Which defeats the entire purpose, since it forces Piglet into the mold for the philosophy instead of showing how he already conforms to it.The author also spends a lot of time explaining how the world is in poor shape due to the "Eeyores" who complain about how the world is doomed instead of seeing things as they really are.He then writes a final chapter explaining how the world is doomed, and everything is going to fall apart, and Western Civilization sucks and there's no hope for anything and if only people had listened to Tao and Te things would have turned out much better.Even I who agree (mostly), with his political and philosophical viewpoints, couldn't help feeling the book was self-righteous and superior-than-thou.
Yikes.
I had hoped that Hoff would grow in the ten years after Tao of Pooh.
He did: he grew batshit.Hoff starts with a good-old-days rant about Man living in Harmony with Nature and Spirits and whatnot before a Great Separation which caused deserts to form and violence and Confucianism.
Tin foil hat territory.
I had to reread parts of it to see if he really meant all that...
and as best I can tell, he does.
Maybe in the second half of the book he goes ha-ha just kidding.
I don't want my experience of Winnie-the-Pooh soiled by paranoid ramblings.
Not as good as the Tao of Pooh, I struggled to finish this book.
While there was still some charm in the book, it wasn't as good with tying philosophies into the other animals in the Hundred-Acre wood.
If you want to contrast ancient philosophy with modern society but don't critically analyze all sides you are doing yourself a disservice.I would recommend this book for: People who have it all figured out already and know that they are never ever wrong.I would not recommend this book for: True Pooh fans, and people who found the Tao of Pooh an endearing comparison of classic literature to classic philosophy.
มีทังสวนทีอานงาย นารัก สนุก และสวนทีตองขบคิด ยอยความแตเราวา มันไมคอยเตา (และเตอ) เทาไรนะมันออกจะวิพากษสังคมอเมริกันเกินธีมเรืองไปหนอยชอบเลมแรกมากกวา
มีทั้งส่วนที่อ่านง่าย น่ารัก สนุก และส่วนที่ต้องขบคิด ย่อยความแต่เราว่า มันไม่ค่อยเต๋า (และเต๋อ) เท่าไรนะมันออกจะวิพากษ์สังคมอเมริกันเกินธีมเรื่องไปหน่อยชอบเล่มแรกมากกว่า
Instead we get Hoff's meandering criticism of Western Civilization, Philosophy, and culture which came across like disorganized, unfocused, preachy, ramblings.
I kept waiting for him to get back to Piglet and this new Taoist term I learned---Te---but the whole book was Hoff's rants!
Much of it felt like came from a place of frustration with the politics, global trends, and popular culture.
And the way he tried to include the Whinnie the Pooh characters into his rant felt forced and pathetic.
The only thing that is good in his two books is when he refers to actual stories from taoist history.
The Tao of Pooh and the Te of Piglet are cheeky self help books that can be put on the same shelf as How to lose 50 pounds in a Month, or Feel Good Today.
Hoff tells you to chill out and let the good times roll.
He forgets about all the people that do get hurt from half-assing a way of life that can change the world when practiced with patience and concentration.
Which I normally wouldn't have minded too much, because as it turns out, Mr. Hoff and I are more or less on the same page politically, but at times you could just feel his anger at the state of the country (And considering that at this point this book is 20 years old and we still face many of the same problems, I'm not going to try to tell you that our country is in a good place yet.) And yet while I agreed with a lot of what he was saying, it felt like he was yelling at me, or trying to argue with me, while I was on the same page as him.
But it’s mostly just Hoff complaining about modern life, with little apparent structure or unifying theme.
Allow me to quote some of his half-assed complaints*: “Modern people bloat life with pointless complications.” “Feminists make words too complicated.” “People run on paved paths rather than on natural grass.” Meh. He also casts most of Milne’s characters, such as Tigger, Owl, and Eeyore, as villains, dismissing the breadth of sympathy in the original stories.
It’s all very overbearing in its scattershot bitterness.
And usually I can’t get enough bitterness.According to Wikipedia, “In 2006, Hoff published an essay online denouncing the publishing industry and announcing his resignation from book-writing.” That sounds about right.*not exact quotes.
After reading "The Tao of Pooh," I was disappointed in "The Te of Piglet." It seemed to me that the author used this "companion" book as a way to espouse his personal opinions that may or may not be supported by Taoist thought. Although I agreed with many of them (and thought others were ignorant and ill-informed), I was not pleased that they were seemingly forced on me when I least expected it. This was not what I hoped to gain from reading this book.
A distinctly less enjoyable sequel to the Tao of Pooh. The book is light on Taoism and Pooh and heavy on criticism of America. Hoff makes statements that he has no interest in backing up at any point and appears to have only wanted to do a sequel so that he could criticize the West. I hated this book.
I threw this book across the room. Didactic and annoying. You'd do much better to read Winnie the Pooh in the original.
I was really disappointed as we spent most of the time comparing every character but Piglet and Pooh to some kind of vague archetype of bad/harmful behavior.
By the time Hoff is ready to talk about Piglet, he has very little that is clear to say.
By trying to stretch the little he has to say about Piglet into a full length book (rather than a supplementary essay to a new edition of Tao of Pooh), it ends up being a capitalist exercise in the vein of the Peter Jackson Hobbit trilogy.
I would like to know how Hoff got permission to commandeer all the Ernest K.
Perhaps because the heirs of Shepherd and Milne no longer care (there is, after all, the whole Disney thing) or because it's no longer about the people, but the corporate interests.
Not that I'm an expert by any means, but one wonders how much Hoff actually knows about Chinese people and how they really see the world.
He seems to idealise and romanticise his idea of "their" thought to an inordinate degree, without really being aware of what's going on on that side of the world.I wonder what the Chinese think of him.
Because no matter what happens, in white American culture, a woman has no options of matriarchal naming, the author thinks this lack of options reveals a weakness in feminism.
Unfortunately, there are western societies in which all children receive both their mother and father's last name, and a married woman takes her husband's name in addition to keeping her own maiden name.I suppose according to the author, Spanish/Hispanic/Latin families simply do not exist, or if they do, they do not count, since it flies in the face of his weird little rant.***"Some people never learn anything because they understand everything too quickly." Alexander Pope.
He complains constantly, and is a huge downer - though I disagree with his ideas about Eeyore, there are so many worse things in this book.
Also apparently in Benjamin Hoff's world there aren't any capitalist economies in Asia, thats just our filthy Western problem.
there are just so many things wrong with this book.
This book is just a platform for the author to whine about how much he hates the US, and placing all of east Asia on a pedastal while completely ignoring their problems.If you enjoyed The Tao of Pooh, spare yourself and don't pick up this book.
Another average read by Hoff.
He really lets loose against the academics and all of Western civilization in this one, while drooling and playing the sycophant for everything Chinese, even the current regime who he brags has young children planting trees and plants (bizarre!).
He rips all of Western science in one paragraph, and praises all Chinese inventions in the next, not even realizing the irony in listing gunpowder as a great invention from the far East!
It's really a shame, as the Taoist philosophy seems quite fascinating and useful but with all the subtlety of an African elephant in a Waterford crystal outlet, Hoff smashes the entire subject to oblivion.
Unreasonably popular in Sweden at the time, it's a kind of "philosophy light", which probably could be expected. Spiced with a few eyebrow-raising quotes and opinions from the author. Nice illustrations.
Again with the ridiculous rambling of Benjamin Hoff and his hatred of the Western World and Christianity (the belief of the Western World) through his teaching of Taoism using the beloved prekindergarten characters of Winnie the Pooh.
Then he goes on to say that Confucianism has similarities to Puritanical Christianity; Hoff displays complete self-delusion in many of his ridiculous comparisons.
And yes, Christians have family relations because they care about their family unlike the Taoist that just goes with the flow and doesn't attach themselves to people so they won't feel the loss but again, isn't that the same with most religions?
This was not nearly as impactful as Pooh, and felt forced to me. You know what they say about sequels....worth the read if you have some time to kill.
In truth, I only read the first half of the book and skimmed the other half.
Rather than explaining characteristics of Piglet we should emulate, he pulls an Eeyore himself and preaches doom and gloom most of the book.
I find it especially funny that one portion of the book is dedicated to Tiggers who have no perseverance and Hoff himself resigned from writing.
Furthermore, for someone who seemed to hate technology, he certainly spends a fair amount of time updating his website.
Which is just one of the ways Hoff's perspectives have not held up to time.
