https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/326509.Rangbhumi
Curiously, even now, Rangbhoomi is the most Indian book I have read.
Premchand's boldness in confronting delicate issues (when the country was itself in a very delicate state) is remarkable.
He talks about the spread of Christianity, attitude towards capitalism, an inherent self-interest in even the best of civil servants at the time, and of course, the soul crushing crimes by committed by Indians against each other to win the favour of the British.In such a dark and despicable environment, the blind beggar Soordas underlines the sheer power of truth, a true sacrifice of desires, and Dharma.
When I started this book, it looked lil boring but really different than Premchand's other books.
Human nature and its complexities and bountifulness has always been Premchand's strength and no body can write better than him on this topic.
One of the negatives I found is he sometime overdo the people's emotions and sometime describe them as near to god, but these characters are not very strong and they are plain human like us.
Also you don't feel much emotion for anyone, may be lil for soordas, that's it.
Its a complex book and lil philosophical too and overall a terrific book.
I have read many books by Munshi Premchand Ji and he is the reason I started exploring Hindi literature. I must say of all the Munshiji's books I have read, RANGBHOOMI is one of my favorite. Each character has a meaning and purpose, how their role and psyche changes over time is overwhelming, you would definitely analyse each character many times, after you finish the book.

One of my favourite books. Especially loved the character ‘SOPHIA’.The author never disappoints me.He is literary stalwart.
Death is not defeat. A good player stand up again and get ready to play another innings.
A true picture of our mind and our societies. Humans and societies have always remained the same, no matter in what time. The way Premchand writes about the psychology of humans and the societies in which they dwell, is remarkable and true even now.
In general, or so I believe, Premchand's stories are much more enjoyable and insightful then his novels.
Rangbhoomi is a mixed bag.
Its environment is during early 20th century in Banaras.
Chief characters are Sevak family (an anglo-indian/indian christian family), A blind but devout and rightous beggar Surdas , group of families/people in Surdas's neighborhood and Raja of Chhatari and his family.
Certain passages are repetitious and full of idealistic/Utopian thoughts - possibly due to the colonial times when this book was written/published.Dialogues are lively and language is generally colloquial and easy to understand.
Though somewhat dated but I still recommend this book.
Every character has unique purpose and meaning. It is interesting to see how their role changes within different perspectives. This novel is related to different life philosophies, nature of Indian society, complex differences between rich and the poor, clash of various cultures. A real work of masterpiece. It seems boring in the beginning but as the story progresses you get well versed with the nature of characters and then begin enjoying part of each role.
A masterpiece by the brilliant. This novel contains striking life-philosophies, the human-nature, politics, livid discussion of spiritual love and the physical love, complexity of family and relations, complexity of the indian Indian society. Clash of two cultures, clash of the ruler and the subject. Complexity of rich and simplicity of the poor. A blind beggar is protagonist, so is a prince. Not as vast as 'War and Peace', but essence is certainly equal. I would recommend this novel.
Enjoyed this one.
