https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3240545-the-passive-vampire
What it is is challenging, semi-autobiographical, surrealist dissertation, erotic in a removed, intellectual George Bataille sort of way, and a book with a lot to offer but only to those who are open to understanding it (subtext=THIS IS NOT A BEACH READ!
The books is divided into two parts:  The Objectively Offered Object and The Passive Vampire.
The offering of an object might have as its setting the pretext of decoration, or a celebration, or some other external and circumstantial accident, just as the manifest life of a dream uses diurnal remnants and random internal and external stimuli to provide the sleeper a framework of no interpretational value within which the action of the dream can unfold.Not only does he use diurnal remnants in an offhand manner, he applies the same type of processing with objects.
The first section - The Objectively Offered Object - is a mostly theory driven essay where Luca introduces an additional Surrealistic Object.
It's actual distinction from the originally proposed objects went a bit over my head; I was worried this would effect my understanding of the second section - The Passive Vampire - especially as the objectively offered object is referenced almost immediately.

A french letter one might say, given that the Rumanian Luca (real name Salman Locker) wrote not in his native tongue but that of André Breton and the surrealists he had recently met in Paris; it is a prophylactic act of love disseminating and inseminating the ‘red threat of Reality’ - a singular erotic gesture in a time of darkness and absence.The book is divided into two distinct sections.
The Passive Vampire, in other words, is itself an Objectively Offered Object in the form of an extended love letter in which the text, with the complicity of the reader, is the object undergoing an exhilarating erotic revolution.
When I first read about this book and the Bucharest Surrealists, I assumed their work would contain too much reverence to the French Surrealists to really stand apart, and true enough, the introduction by Krzysztof Fijalkowski, who provided the translation, somewhat overemphasizes Luca's obsession with Andre Breton.
In fact, it so resembles the French Surrealist form and structure that it prevented me from giving it the fifth star.
But I must say that I personally believe Luca's writing to be much more clever and witty than Breton's work.
It's funny because a lot is made in the introduction and actual text of Luca's obsession with and reverence for Andre Breton, but so far I've found this to be a superior text to anything of Breton's I've read.
I find Luca to be an infinitely more sympathetic human being than Breton, as well, which isn't surprising.
The descriptions of the objects are fantastic, and the episode after the earthquake in particular is extremely haunting - there are some great, dreamlike images conjured up and ruthlessly dissected with honesty not many people could achieve (it's great to see Luca openly admitting bisexuality over and over again in this text, considering the time and place it was written!).This book should certainly be considered a major classic of Surrealism and ought to be at least as widely read as Nadja or Story of the Eye.
This is a great little book of surrealism with some excellent poetic dreamlike writing and some interesting accompanying photographs. It's beyond my understanding on many levels - a bonus! - and the best way to illustrate the appeal is to quote from it:"The fibres of a watch stopped at midnight and the fibres of a whale drowned in the Pacific spin in the dark an aluminium net for trawling for cathedrals."If that floats your boat, read the book. If it doesn't then you're unlikely to enjoy it.
This book by the Romanian surrealist, Luca (his pen-name was chosen from a list of obituaries), is like a breath of fresh air in a world of vapid hypocrisy. It's magical, liberating, disturbing, fiercely beautiful. There's plot, no characters, no resolution just a stream of consciousness monologue touching on the writer's obsessions with sex, death, morality and art. It contains seventeen illustrations of Luca's found or partially constructed objects. Reading it is like floating through a dream world that, in the manner of dreams, only half makes sense but it has a hypnotic fascination.
The Passive Vampire is the titleGherasim LUCA is the AuthorKrzysztof Fijalkowski is the translator
I'm reading The Passive Vampire: Fascinating personal account of readymade-making and artistic gift-giving by an overlooked Romanian Dadaist.
