https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7620870
It raises issues of women's liberation that are still considered 'controversial' in Indian society today.The story is set in the close knit Bengali community in Agra.
The author also juxtaposes the debate about nationhood to make a combustible mix -- should India have a modern outlook that apes the West or should we abide by our traditions and follow on the footsteps of our 5000 year old civilization in creating a society that values self-sacrifice, austerity and a strict social code for men and women.Each of the characters have their unique take/perspective on women's rights.
Awesome. The questions raised in the book are very thought provoking. At no point it hails or condemns one over the other but cajoles you to set aside prejudices formed. The questions raised on women and their place in the society at that point of time is admirable. Also, one can't help admiring the idea of nation, citizen of the world and other thoughts that are still not fully realised or understood by many. If pride for your own makes you hate/look down upon others, might as well not have pride in your own.
The noted writer and critic Buddhadeva Bose in his An Acre of Green Grass – A Review of Modern Bengali Literature (1948) writing about The Final Question says that it is, `an essay on the New Morality, was neither new nor moral, nor, for that matter, an essay.’ Discussing this novel and Pather Dabi (The Claim of the Road) he laments, `it is our grave misfortune that Saratchandra was gulled by his admirers into imagining that he was anything except a storyteller.
What I remember of this book would be the ferocious personality of Kamal.
I remember I was awed by this lady and her point of view , not being from a very conservative background myself ; I was not shocked at her liaisons but what shocked me was the ease with which she collected her broken heart and moved forward.
The only complain I think I had of this book was the physical appearance of the lady.
She was extremely attractive and to quote the entry I wrote in my diary about her was , "While reading this novel, I wondered why inorder to show a strong and clear headed woman , the writer chose a beautiful (physically) woman.
Written sometime in the '30s it makes you wonder if people's thoughts are as progressive today as the author's had been then, the country would be a much better place to live inThis is the story of a lady, Kamal who not only stares in the face of the society without blinking but manages to defy it with erudite reasons expressed in the most direct vocal forms possible.
In a time where a misplaced sense of pride, nationalism and religious beliefs wrecked havoc in a person's morality, this lady gathers all the muck that is flung at her by the society and makes a lovely ceramic vase only to present it back.
This book was written back in 1931, before Independence originally in Bengali and then later it was translated in English by Department of English, Jadavpur Universiy.
Saratchandra has described the life of Kamal (the main character in his novel ) very beautifully.
He has shown that how a complete educated woman and aware about society norms had to suffer because she comes from a lower caste.
She dares to spend a night with a man, fall in love with him but refuses to marry.
He has written it in a very progressive manner.
There are some great lines describing men and women's relationship.
Remarkably bold for its time. Perhaps, for even now.
পুনরপাঠ। কমলকে ভালবাসি।
পুনর্পাঠ। কমলকে ভালবাসি।
The author however doesn't provide any solutions- or rather his solutions, but any reader who has read the book, absorbed it, is bound to think, and question oneself- and may even lead to shattering his 'notions', pre-conceived notions.
I must say-as an instance, when the protagonist - Kamal raises questions on Ashu babu's pre-conceived notion of the Taj Mahal.
From there on, the protagonist shall pour constructive skepticism, till the very end of the book.
Kamal is I believe, figuratively the - constructive skepticism of rational thinking, which is very much present in each one of us, which is, may be shadowed by cloud of lack of it.
A slow moving story for the patient reader. The author broadens the vision and makes the reader question the commonly accepted values of the human society, mainly through the character of bold & beautiful Kamal. Out of all what is discussed, what caught my attention the most was the story 'Once when I was a woman', although it takes relatively a very small space in the novel. The reader cannot help getting fascinated by the highly appropriate and colourful similes the writer has made use of quite often throughout the entire story.
Is the main idea about rejection of archaic, obsolete morms, traditions of society. Norms which are considered as reverence to Indian culture.Or is it more about touching the base of these traditions and norms. To make the changes in the existing traditions.I believe it was both. With both ideas juxtaposed in the story.I am no one to comment on this great writer but he looks much ahead of his time. Glad that I read this book.
Its not an easy read, a lot of conversations, through which the reader gets to know about opinions being formed, held or shelved. Not surprised that the book got a stormy reception. Laughed to myself, when i juxtaposed this book written in 1931 against what Asarambapu has to say these days, 8- years hence. Kamal is unique..
A book way ahead of it's time. All the questions raised are so progressive in thought, even to this day. There's no choice but to be in awe of the character Kamal. Bound by no chains, no expectations and adhering to no societal norms, she's the representation of a lot of women faced with these realistic challenges. This is the first book I read of Sarat Chandra. Will definitely read more.
Many of the questions asked by Kamal are relevant even today. Even after 80 years the book is gripping, throws a lot of unpleasant questions at the society through the heroine and tries to attck hypocrisy
one of the finest work of Sarat Chandra. I fell in love with the characters. they haunt me till date
I never understood the book as a whole.
A little too heavy with dialogues full of ideas and ideologies, but a good book nonetheless.
