https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15177.Bridge_of_Birds
I most definitely have more than a slight flaw in my character, and I only liked this book, did not 
I'm stopping by to rate this beauty of a book. First, because it's clever, humorous and a welcome counterpoint to the general sourness that is GR these days. Second, because although it is relatively unknown, it should probably rank up near Princess Bride in adult folk-tale charm. Third, because Master Li's determined but cheerful subversiveness might just make him my new hero.More at clsiewert.wordpress.com:http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/1...
“You almost trapped my shadow inside the grave!”“Why don’t you tie your shadow to your body with a cord, like a sensible person?” Pawnbroker Fang grumbled.As you may have guessed by now the tone is rather light hearted throughout.
When I moonlighted at the late, lamented "The Stars Our Destination" between about 1996 and 2000, this was one of two books Alice Bentley stocked in vast quantity at deeply-discounted prices (the other being the store's namesake).
When you love a book like Alice loved this one, you want to make sure everyone reads it, and she was its zealous advocate to our not-yet-enlightened clientele.
Instead, Hughart produced three works in a bubble and then quietly departed the field, leaving something special behind him.I note, for the sake of completeness, that The Stars Our Destination also published an omnibus edition of the complete trilogy with Barry Hughart's blessing.
I can't think of a book quite like this. BoB is a light-hearted Chinese fantasy that is refreshing and completely enjoyable. Hughart makes the folktales and legends of ancient China seem utterly commonplace and this lends to the surreality of the story. After reading a number of very serious books, I really needed a novel like this!
similar to Big Fish or The Princess Bride in tone, but with way more laugh out loud moments.
Did I already mention charm??A young fellow living in ancient China has been dispatched to find help from a wise man - any wise man available for a handful of copper pennies - for the children of his village have collapsed with some type of plague affecting only those between the ages of 8 and 13.
The children have accidentally been poisoned, and only The Great Root of Power (1000 year old ginseng with arm-like appendages) can save them.
4 stars
Nevertheless, I shall attempt it, as the most important thing in the entire world right now is that I convince everyone to read this book*.Number Ten Ox (who isn't actually an Ox, but was his parents' 10th child, and is rather large) is a peasant farmer in the titular China That Never Was. During the annual harvesting of silk, many children in his village fall sick with a plague.
You may console youself with the thought the most expensive woman in the world is likely to be the most beautiful""Master Li, I shall do my duty," I said bravely."Any last words?" asked the sergeant at arms.I was only Number Ten Ox, so I lifted my head to [redacted].
I feel bad.
I finished this book two days after we recorded the episode of Sword and Laser where we wrap it up (first time I haven't finished a book for the audio show).
I blame Outlander for being too long.Anyhow, I wish I had made it to the end, because coming away from the book now I feel much differently than I did at the 75% mark.
If felt like the silliness that was almost a distraction for me came together in the end in a really beautiful and meaningful way.
You all said I'd feel different, and you were right.
This is what I've been missing all these years; this fills the gap that, until it was filled, I never knew existed!" Although Bridge of Birds was published before I was born, it still provokes a similar feeling (one of, "Why didn't I know about this when I was younger?").There's something seductive about fables and fairy tales—the real, often grim fairy tales that lurk in the subconscious of every culture.
I found the contrast between the Duke and Master Li the most striking; there were many others, such as the brain/brawn pairing of Li and Number Ten Ox, and the transformations of Henpecked Ho and Miser Shen.For such a short book, there's an awful lot to Bridge of Birds.
My surname is Li and my personal name is Kao, and there is a slight flaw in my character.So says Master Li to Number Ten Ox when Ox is sent to the city to find a sage to assist his village, dealing with a mysterious disease.
Or there may be a slight flaw in my character.In many ways, BoB reminded me of reading Aesop’s fables—as a reader, I was very aware that the author was not in any way attempting to reconstruct Ancient China.
Some of Master Li and Number Ten Ox’s adventures may also have been influenced by the Indiana Jones movie franchise.An enjoyable, fun book well suited to lunch-break reading.
The fantasy elements are rampant in mythological beings, some characters who seem to live forever, and situations/people who don't quite follow the laws of nature.
The two main characters become Master Li and Ten Number Ox. Li has been consulted to cure the children from his village who are comatose after a silkworm incident, and they go on a quest for a legendary root.
Master Li is quite a character, and always seems to know just enough to pull them into crazy adventures and out.
Much of the story has beautiful imagery, and that adds to a pleasant and quick read.
I was really torn between 3 & 4 stars for "Bridge of Birds".
I enjoyed the story and thought that the setting (ancient China) and characters were quite unique for fantasy.
However, the story fell a little bit flat because it was told in the style of a myth or fable.
The characters were more like caricatures than three-dimensional people.
I liked it well enough, but I don't know if this is going to be one of those books I remember a few years from now.If you need a light, escapist fantasy that's a bit unusual, "Bridge of Birds" is a good choice.
Just listened to the beginning of this  here  at  Forgotten Classics (first 11 mins are kinda introduction about the author and stuff) and suddenly I'm so very excited about it! Soon!
3.5 stars. Best way I can think of to describe this book is that it is beautifully written "fable" set in China. It is clever, funny and very original. Recommended!!Winner: Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Adult Literature (1986)Winner: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1985)(tie)
Furthermore, note the subtitle of the book -- "A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was." Hughart plays fast and loose with Chinese history and culture whenever it suits his purpose, so he could've made a non-sexist world if he wanted, but he chose not to.In point of fact, he altered part of Chinese culture to fit the sexist nature of his story.
"Help," said Pretty Ping.Yes, folks, Our Hero is a rapist!
“My surname is Li and my personal name is Kao, and there is a slight flaw in my character.” PLOT: In the beginning of the novel, the village of Ku-fu is stricken by a plague which kills its silkworms and sends its children between the ages of eight and thirteen into a coma. Number Ten Ox, the narrator, is dispatched to find a wise man who can cure the children. In Peking, he finds Master Li Kao, a drunken scholar with a self-described "slight flaw in his character", who immediately identifies t
In Peking, he finds Master Li Kao, a drunken scholar with a self-described "slight flaw in his character", who immediately identifies the cause of the plague as ku poison, an incurable poison inflicted on the village by two dishonest villagers trying to corner the silk crop.
In order to cure the children, Ox and Master Li set out to find the Great Root of Power which can cure anything.
He goes in search of Great Root of Power with Master Li Kao. The narration is humorous and sarcastic at times.
The book is set in a fictional Chinese village and the tale weaved is definitely worth reading!
This is a true fantasy novel—almost insane at times with the level of fanciful world-building and maximum-level hyperbole.You can tell Hughart is a true lover of stories, especially faerie tales and those sorts.
I wasn't sure what to think the first few chapters, but you have to remember I came from a Wheel of Time marathon, which has a lot more description and slower pacing.But I quickly fell in love with this fantastic adventure novel.
Bridge of Birds is a celebration of the English Language, and I encourage you to spend a lazy Sunday afternoon in a coffeeshop, enjoying this rollicking tale.Read with Sword and Laser for the February 2013 pick.
Executive Summary: This book provides a good mix of adventure and humor with a bit of action and mystery thrown in for good measure. It's only about 250 pages, so it makes for a quick read once you get into it. Highly recommend. Full Review This one got on my radar thanks to Sword & Laser from one of Aaron's great white boards. It got lost on my ever-growing to read list, until the club decided to make the February pick.Normally I try to time things so I can read the club picks at the beginn
It got lost on my ever-growing to read list, until the club decided to make the February pick.Normally I try to time things so I can read the club picks at the beginning of the month, but that wasn't going to work out this time, so I opted to read it early rather than later.This books starts off a bit slow.
Master Li comes off a bit like a cartoon character to me, but I really enjoy him, despite the slight flaw in his character.Master Li and Number Ten Ox go on increasingly dangerous adventures in the hopes of saving the children of Ox's town.
The opening chapters of this book are very good, and set up high expectations for the rest of the story.
Because honestly, aside from the first few chapters and the last few, the rest of the book is riddled with flaws - so many, in fact, that I almost gave up on it.
For one thing, there turns out to be not one quest, but a tedious succession of them, into dark labyrinths from which there is no escape, etc., etc.
All of these things spoiled my enjoyment of the book.
I really enjoyed this change of pace.
This book was surprisingly humorous, and I liked the style of writing.
It's set in medieval China, which is a setting I've never read before personally in fantasy - so that was a really nice change as well, but I can't say how "historically accurate" it was because I have no idea.
It's a trilogy, and I totally intend on reading the next two books I enjoyed this one so much.
I w0uld have given a 4.25 if I was allowed to be more accurate!
I actually had to re-read scenes, not because I was confused, but because I was giddy with a sense of, "Wait, they did what!?"Bridge of Birds was fast on its way to becoming one of my favorite books, and I'd say it still holds that position, but with one notable reservation.Most of the female characters are horrible.And that's fine!
There is one chapter where the heroes arguably help a female character save herself, and I liked that scene best.Considering BoB is meant to be a light-hearted romp, it was all the more jarring to be chuckling one moment then cringing the next, because I couldn't believe a father murdering his wife and her sisters, and a bandit's propensity for rape both got played for laughs.There's a quote from Trudy Cooper, creator of the comic 
A more believable story was produced - that a great dragon had rested itself on that part of the wall, thus moving it, and it shouldn't be tampered with.And so the village of Ku-Fu became home to what was known as The Dragon's Pillow, a place that would one day loom large in the history of not only the village, but all of China.It is a peaceful village with the usual colorful characters that you get in such a place, such as the terrible partners Pawnbroker Fang and Ma the Grub, two greedy and unscrupulous men who hold the economic life of the village in their hands.
I brought this book about this time last year; this is now my fourth read of it.
Its a wonderfully complete book; it makes you guess, makes you laugh, makes you cheer, makes you sad.
The finest thing about this book is Master Li, who is the impossibly wise and completely irreverent mentor we'd all pick if we were stuck in a fantasy world...
or any world really.
Such a shame we don't have more books featuring him.
To steal Anne McCaffrey's quote for this - Master Li might have a slight flaw in his character, but this book has none.
Every now and then one must let go of the apprehension of wandering into the unknown realms, straying away from the routine and the familiar to head into an unknown and unchartered territory, for you may end up finding the treasure at the end of the rainbow or even better, a book like Bridge of Birds.The children of a village aged between 8 and 13 are mysteriously poisoned leaving the villagers in a state of shock and worry.
And then begins the adventure!Bridge of birds is a fascinating novel with a host of memorable characters.
Wow. This book lives up to the hype.
Hughart takes the reader to a place and time that never truly was, but is wonderful and real.
The book is wonderful, its brillant, its Chaucerian.
While the story is told in fable form, the two central characters are never protrayed as simply types.
Characters who first seem to be simply types are revealed to be far more than that.
The ending of the book is absolute poetry.
Stop reading this review and go read the book.
It's wonderful.
It's wonderful.

Barry Hughart is a Western writer, of course, but he's drawing on non-typical settings and sources -- although, of course, a lot of the stories and lore in this book is made up for the purposes of the story, there are also things I recognise from the little I've read of Monkey (Journey to the West).
It's quite fun to read: there were quite a few giggles and smiles, from me at least.Although the story is told in first person, from the point of view of Number Ten Ox, you don't get to know the characters in very much depth.
I enjoyed it a lot, and I'll certainly remember it as fun -- the characters will probably not stick in my head, though.

It is more like a hero quest, where the heroes (Li Kao and Number Ten Ox) are not overly blessed with morals or magical talent, but through luck and superior ability to solve puzzles, they are able to stumble into resolving the trials of their village.
This character weakness is somewhat mitigated at the end by the discovery of the true identity of Lotus Cloud.
The sense of being part of a real-life fairy tale (the true way it happened as opposed to what gets added to the country's literary tradition) makes this book fun.
