https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9599261-the-thing-from-the-lake
I loved Roger, the character, and the reader of the book.You can gain more than I might tell by reading the blurb on Goodreads.
Most of the story I felt I knew just slightly more than Roger Locke knows as the protagonist and primary point of view character.
And later, as foretold by the pleasant 'girl' in the dark something evil comes to visit.
The girl even extracts a promise he will never try to turn on the light when she visits.I read some reviews that say it is comparable to a Stephen King story.
Roger Locke is a successful New York composer of stage musicals and popular sings who decides to buy himself a farm as an investment.
As Verne is originally from a farming family he offers the couple the chance to run his farm for him and supervise the renovation of the house while he is in New York.
Ingram certainly manages to produce an atmosphere of dread and unearthly unease when the thing (from another dimension, it appears) manifests itself, while at the same time establishing a growing bond between Locke and his mysterious – possibly immaterial – female visitor, slotting this novel into the tradition of supernatural romances.
In fact, after the plot stops being about "The thing from the lake" (5 pages in) and is more about how this one lonely dude has a really big hard on for this long haired woman that visits him in the night...and how awesome that is...and how...you know...like, don't sacrifice yourself for me because I love you...and might be allegory about nocturnal emissions as much as anything and the euphoria versus guilt of having them...for the majority of the book: I started going off.
Outside of that, the biggest thing going for the book is that it's a very early example of the dark romance genre, technically.
Roger Melin's narration was excellent - clear and engaging with appropriate, understated character voices.The story itself was fun.
Creepy and strange, with well developed main characters that I got very attached to.
It is slow to start but I was enjoying learning about the people so it kept my interest.
I kept with it all the way to the end to find out what was going on and the reveal did not disappoint.There are some old fashioned attitudes towards gender, disability and sex, but these were not pervasive enough to spoil the story for me, although I did find myself rolling my eyes at times.
Hmmm. Well, let's see. Ah - err. It was gooooooood? No wait, it was interesting... Yes, it was very interesting. It came across to me as if Emily Post's Etiquette was written as a ghost/water demon story. I think. Ah. I'm really not sure how to feel about this one. It was weird, but interesting (and dated).
A strangely sweet little ghost story with likeable characters- I listened to this on audio, a chapter a night, and found myself always looking forward to the next installment which is always a good sign.
I have a personal like for the older literature as it gives you an interesting look into our past.
The Thing From the Lake was a book that caught me off guard.
I found the story to be very intriguing once you have gotten to the 20s style of flowery words and digressions in thought that would typically be cut out of books today.
I found that this book read to me like one of the first types of supernatural/science fiction type stories where what you would expect doesn't turn out the way you thought.
I'm glad I didn't put this book down. The English was too stiff for me, but after a while I didn't notice it...much. Anyway, Eleanor does a great job making the reader feel like they're in that old house and surrounded by fog.
A Classic that needs to be read by all. Scary and brilliant, ghosts, witches and demons perhaps on their way. I loved it
I loved the twist in this story!
The book just drew me in.
Here i thought the girl was a spirit trapped in the human realm and had fallen for a man whom she continue to visit at nights, just to find out she was an actual human who had been sneaking in and out of the man's house.
It really proved how strong prayer is.
It got rid of the that evil spirit who had latched himself unto that young girl and the main character.
This is definitely one of my favorite books so far this year.
This was my first attempt at an audio version.I enjoyed the atmosphere of the book and the story itself moved along nicely with well developed characters.
I'm giving it four stars though I need to base that on listening to the story rather than actually reading it which I think allows for more insight into the style and theme of a story which I think is weakened to really take in with an audio version.
I never really understand those mysterious love stories--how does someone honestly fall in love with a ghost?
What is your end game with that?
how do you carrying on a prosaic life afterward but  The Thing from the Lake  is most lovely when the remarkable descends to the prosaic, especially in the case of Ethan, known as "Drawls" by his wife (a college dropout herself, happily descending from abstract erudition to housewifery), a ice-skating cabaret performer to turns out to be a steady, reliable husband and husbandman.
Similarly, Desire, the ghostly woman who relates the dark tales of fate and doom of her family, is not all smoke and mirrors.
A delightful tale that's difficult to classify. One part horror and one part New England time period piece, Ingram's tale artfully weaves the two together to tell the tale of Roger Locke, a composer who buys a farm by a lake in Connecticut to use as a country retreat. When he meets a mysterious woman at night, he starts getting visits from a dark force from the lake that claims to own her. In spite of a few cringe-worthy misogynistic moments true to the time period, it is a truly engaging and enjoyable read. Check out my full review.
this book was ok. some notes on it-cousin roger was pretty cool putting up his newly wed cousin & her unknown husband. chapter 16 and now u tell me she isn't a ghost? how does that work exactly?----oh I see. right...swamp gas....
lost gem, enjoyed this story very much, the only supernatural story by the author, back to the 20s...
uhg.
Early horror story set in New England. The question of what is real and what is imagined is brought into play with the bone-chilling arrival of the "thing" at a remote summer home.
ghost story from 1921. Slow pacing, very dated ideas, yet prose is modern. Gives possible logical explanation rather than the supernatural.
Whether you are skeptic scientist or a believer in magic, the dual reading of the story will satisfy you. What the protagonist encounters in a remote home he purchased can be explained either way.
