https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164408.Happy_All_the_Time
This is the fourth book I’ve read by the wonderful writer Laurie Colwin, who died tragically young – she was only 48 years old – in 1992.
Her work, although a little dated, deserves to be discovered by a new generation.I see I’ve rated all of her books 4 stars.
Third-cousins Guido Morris and Vincent Cardworthy find themselves drawn to two very different women, Guido to the laconic, spontaneous Holly Sturgis, Vincent to the pessimistic Misty Berkowitz, who’s radically unlike anyone else he’s ever dated.The book chronicles the couples’ ups and occasional downs in a very idealized, and mostly white, New York City.
When I was a senior in high school, I read a short story called "An Old Fashioned Romance" by Colwin in my AP class.
Long story short, I was always struck by the title "Happy All The Time" and intended to read this novel, but never got the chance.
I don't know - this isn't the type of book that I'd normally read, and I don't think I'll read any of her other novels (though I want to read her "Home Cooking" essay collections) because I'm not sure what I felt for this book will carry over into those.
Colwin's "project" in this, and the other works of hers I've read, seems to revolve around picking up the story of love where most novelists leave off: she's interested in what happy marriages and established friendships look like.
Happily, the characters struggling with accepting happiness are usually married (literally or figuratively) to characters who have a talent for enjoying what life has given them, and so like in Austen, there's always a process of conversion to love/happiness.
As someone who has wondered whether it's possible to be both intelligent and happy, I appreciated the reminder that sustaining happiness takes its own kind of genius.
There is no other novel I have ever read, and I believe I have read thousands in 60+ years of life, (not that I was yet able to read 60 years ago) that has left me beaming like an idiot.
Colwin, who sadly died years ago at a young age, was such a gifted writer.
Guido and Vincent, third cousins and best friends, are two good, decent, smart, witty guys who fall, in turn, for 2 quirky, resistant, but kindhearted women.
The couples, with some very interesting and funny cousins who come along to join the fray, delight in life as young adults in a world that is just now becoming a part of history.
The story of two friends, Guido and Vinent, who live and work in New York City.
They find love, marry (Holly and Misty, respectively) and experience the hopes, dreams, anxieties and challenges associated with moving into adulthood.
As one reviewer said, this book takes up where most love stories leave off - at the settling in and finding contentment stage.
This is the second time I've read Happy All the Time.
Written in 1978, its themes are both universal and specific to the place, time and these four people.
I love Laurie Colwin!
Time to re-read her other works.
I’m so happy that this charming, insightful, and absolutely delightful novel has been reissued. Laurie Colwin was a brilliant writer and I only wish she’d had many more years and many more books.Thank you to Open Road Integrated Media and NetGalley for an advance copy of this book.
Unsure of how to change things, he walks into the office one day and meets Misty Berkowitz, a cantankerous young woman of Jewish extraction who loathes and distrusts everything Vincent represents.
"I can't bear to see you this way."She shrugged her shoulders.Vincent asked, "Does it help if I tell you I love you, or does it make it worse?"She began to cry.
I love Vincent and Misty so much.
Either way, Misty is a kindred spirit and I sat there rapt as she worked through her feelings and came to grips with the fact that she loved someone who appeared to be so wrong for her, someone who--deep down--she felt rather sure would up and walk away someday when he woke up and realized just who he'd married.
When I picked up my copy of Happy All the Time and saw the sad girl peeling pears on the cover, I was like, "Here we go.
Time to delve into the depressing inner lives of searching young adults." Having just finished a few Lorrie Moore stories from Birds of America, I was sure that the title of Colwin's novel was ironic.IT SURE ISN'T!
And her husband, Vincent Cardworthy, is nothing short of adorable—to the point where I read nearly all of his lines to my fiancé until he exclaimed "NO ONE TALKS LIKE THAT!"And maybe that's the problem.
No one lives like this.
Repleto de líneas brillantes, diálogos dinámicos, personajes completamente fascinantes dada su complejidad y un estilo que conjuga a la perfección sobriedad y sensibilidad literaria, Tantos días felices es una obra realmente sorprendente e imbuida de una personalidad desbordante.
No se trata de una historia vertiginosa ni lacrimógena; al contrario, no puede ser más cotidiana, anticlimática y argumentalmente austera.
Además, resulta extraño el mensaje optimista que transmite, dadas las circunstancias más o menos melodramáticas del relato.
La decisión, desde luego, no ha podido ser más acertada.
It's been years since I read this book, but it has stayed with me all this time, and I'm thinking it may be time to re-read it.
It's a story about couples who get along and are "happy all the time." Sounds boring, right?
That's because our concept of a happy relationship is both one-dimensional and an utter fantasy.
These folks argue, have problems and crises .
and get through them together, with a baseline of respect and affection for each other.
If recent movies, books and memes have driven you mad with their unrealistic and sappy portrayals, this will be an antidote.
And I think that rings so true to life--often times, we pin burdens on ourselves, sometimes unnecessarily, sometimes because we know that working through that will lead us to a better understanding of ourselves and the world around us.***minor spoilers***The message I took away from the story is: when you love someone, you have to allow them to love you back.
Misty worries that she is all wrong for Vincent (even though he clearly loves her) and she fears he will eventually want someone more like him.
I appreciated the thoughtful look at humanity, at love and friendship, and at what it takes to live our life so that we can be "happy all the time" (or, at least, most of it!)
However, again, I think this is part of the point of the book: people group and regroup, and their conversations, actions, and reactions push forward and forward.I have a few nitpicks.
1. The concept of money has close to no bearing on any of the characters, which I find less than believable even if they're part of a rich NYC population/mindset.
3. The relationship concepts of the 1970s don't match mine; this is jarring (especially in the otherwise fairly contemporary setting) though it is also clearly my own problem.It's a pretty solid 3.5, if we're going by numbers.

How is it that I have not reviewed this book before now?
For many years, it was a tradition that for the first book of the new year, I would read "Happy All The Time." This story of two couples is so light-filled and nuanced and clever -- I simply take great pleasure in reading it and enjoy being reminded that life can be quite lovely, indeed.
Laurie Colwin has a dry (and subtle wicked wit), which is what gives this novel its depth.
Yes, the world portrayed in this book is sheltered, but sometimes a reader needs to take shelter.
While I could have finished this had I soldiered on, I gave myself permission to abandon it.
Life is too short to sludge through books you don't enjoy.
I don't know if it was someone else's comment that this book reminded them of a mix between The Great Gatsby and Breakfast at Tiffany's or just the vagaries of my own mind, but I kept thinking Happy All the Time was set somewhere in the 1920's to 1940's time period.
Then, as I was reading, a comment about computers or something would remind me it was written and set in the late 1970's and I'd get all confuzzled.
This is a story about two friends - who also happen to be third cousins - and the women they marry. This was relatively enjoyable to read but I really think this book would be best as a book club pick. It lends itself to discussion about marriage and relationships and the ways we know and don't know the people we're closest to. I liked that this book was literary and still happy. I feel like much of the family/relationship-focused literary fiction that has come out in the past few years is based on unlikable characters.
The happiest little book I’ve read in a long time.
There are some writers who are good enough to disregard plot in favor of a collection of quirky characters slinging each other with cute conversation.
He meets Holly outside of a museum and goes gaga for her in the least subtle way, describing her for Vincent as though she was a piece from one of the collections inside.
Holly is light on emoting and poor Guido never really knows where he stands with her.
Like Holly, she eventually cracks.
On the sidelines are a slew of caricatures including a super efficient secretary and a hippie, vibe-feeling fill-in secretary, uncles and aunts with colorful pasts, a vegetarian dancer, and another cousin who gives Misty a bit of a core shake.
Guido y Vincent son dos personas con las que creo que casi todo hombre se podría identificar.
Ambos conocen a dos mujeres independientes que se salen de los estereotipos que suelen tener en la cabeza cuando piensan en su amor ideal y acaban perdidamente enamorados.
A pesar de eso, no las acaban de comprender y da la impresión de que desearían -sobre todo Guido- cambiar muchas cosas de ellas.
Es un libro con el que he aprendido bastante de mí mismo y que me ha hecho replantearme algunas de mis ideas sobre las relaciones amorosas en general.
I first read this book a few months after I had a stillborn baby and was struggling with depression and the grief.
The title of the book drew me in because I was so desperately unhappy at the time.
I devoured each of her books as they were published, including Home Cooking.
My favorite is probably Shine On Bright And Dangerous Object.
I remember specifically where I was when I learned she had died.
I felt like I had just lost a life-long friend and still miss her writing.
She had a true impact on me.
Utterly brilliant; a joy from first page to last. What a genius Laurie Colwin was to write a book about four people falling in love and just being happy (no big dramas here) and to make that not only compelling but full of wisdom and wit. The comparisons to Jane Austen are both apt and wholly deserved.
Poca cosa, poca chicha, poco de todo. Así que supongo que bien para el "club de lectura ligera". Próximamente, enlazaré la crítica.
This book is funny in a grown-up way. I can't decide if I should cheer or die of envy.
It is full of quotable passages and one of my favorites was this one (spoken by an extremely prickly person): "She sat reflecting on the civil war between character and personality.
Her character, she decided, was like the tender stomach of a porcupine and her personality was a bunch of quills.
When a porcupine is frightened, she knew, it rolls itself up into a ball to protect its vulnerable stomach from harm.
The enemy does not know how soft the porcupine is inside, only the porcupine does."That perfectly describes every prickly person I've ever met in my life, including and especially the one I sometimes see in my own mirror.
Found this because her work was mentioned in another book review claiming to be "happy" stories of people.
This was a short, simple book focused on 2 couples in the seventies (tho at times the style of writing and the characters seem from an earlier time culturally).
I really enjoyed it.
It was sweet and soft with the inner turmoil of people who want to belong, be connected, and have their own fears and insecurities but it doesn't stop them from being together and good to each other.
It was a little light on back story to help me understand their fears, but in the end I enjoyed it.
I can't remember what on earth compelled me to purchase this from Audible. There were some wonderful twists of phrase (on his wedding eve, Vincent had "cold hands and warm feet") I kind of loved that, but other than that it seemed kind of silly with characters that I couldn't muster up any feelings at all for.
"Marriage, it turned out, was a series of small events." Happy story of merging totally different personalities in a relationships and how it brings balance.
Unhappily, she died in 1992 when she was only in her early forties, and the tributes written by her readers (you can find them on the web) show how greatly she is missed.Happy All the Time begins like this: “Guido Morris and Vincent Cardworthy were third cousins.
Perhaps I like these books because love is a marvel to the author and her characters - they are alternately baffled and elevated by their feelings, but they never fall into the clichés of the romance genre.After making love to his eventual wife, Holly, for the first time, “Guido felt quite wiped out by sensation.
Happy All the Time by Laurie Colwin is an offbeat story of friendship, love and relationships between 4 eccentric individuals, set in mid-1970s Cambridge MA and New York City.
Guido Morris and Vincent Cardworthy are third cousins, lifelong friends in their late twenties.
"With their futures somehat assured, they lolled around Cambridge and wondered whom they might marry."At Fogg Museum in Cambridge they meet Holly Sturgis, and Guido feels love at first sight.
Vincent meets Misty Berkowitz in his workplace, The Board of City Planning.
He gradually overcomes her resistance and wins her heart.The two friends meet and discuss their love lives.
Colwin balances interiority--for all of the main characters, though maybe Holly comes up a little short on that front--with sharp dialogue that feels a little British and a little Nora Ephron.Here are just a few things that made me giggle:"She wore the sort of clothes the Queen Mother wears to go trout fishing""A great deal of hearty laughter between Roy Borden and Denton McKay covered an essential hatred.""'One morning, I'll wake up and be a grownup.' 'No you won't,' said Guido.
