https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93938.A_Letter_of_Mary
Years ago I read The Beekeeper's Apprentice and A Monstrous Regiment of Women.
My book group was reading The Beekeeper's Apprentice , so I reread it and loved it even more than I remembered.
On the one hand, I believe that books should be read in order, it’s really the only way.
I justified it by saying that I had already read A Monstrous Regiment of Women at one point, but I still felt like I’d been caught with my hand in the cookie jar.There is something so perfect about these books.
The year is 1923, Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes is at their home in Sussex Downs busy with their studies.
Russell with theology and Holmes with some chemical experiments.
A couple of days is Miss Ruskin killed in a traffic accident.
The case in this book is intriguing with an ancient papyrus claimed to be written by Mary Magdalene and the death of Miss Ruskin.
I love the theology part of the story, with a papyrus that could very well be written by Mary Magdalene.
King manages to combine theology with crime, just like in the previous book.
4.5 stars.
A librarian who met her recently told me that Laurie R.
King is a "true intellectual," and after reading this third book in the Mary Russell series, I have to agree.
Her books read like classics.
They are books to savor and to thoroughly enjoy.
I truly enjoyed this installment, and will definitely be continuing with the series.
It didn't earn a five from me because it lacks the emotional power of my recent fives.
However, it's extremely well-written, intelligent, and I love Russell and Holmes.
What a team they make.
It's as though Conan Doyle wrote it himself.
I didn't like this book as much as the first two.
I actually put it down twice in the middle to read other books and then again twenty pages from the end (mid-reveal).
I just didn't care how the case ended.The victim of the case was meant to be a personal friend of Mary's, which is why they get involved with the case at all, but I just didn't see the connection.
How close of friends can they be?Also, Mary ended up following the wrong lead on the case.
But I still like the characters and the overall story wasn't bad.
Their relationship while strained and questioning in the book hadn’t been romantic, but Mary had turned 21 and their relationship caused questions, especially when traveling together.My first response was that King was throwing in a needless romance and I was unhappy.
I needed to remember that Sherlock and Mary could not continue working together without causing scandal and destroying Mary’s reputation.
Foul play can not be ruled out, and Sherlock weedles Mary away from her research to investigate the cause of death.King did a wonderful job.
I’m not generally looking for an overly intelligent masterpiece but King is an exception to that rule.
Mary Russell has noted the tell-tale signs of boredom in her husband, Sherlock Holmes, when his mind is not being stimulated with a case.
Leaving the letter with Russell, she returns to London only to be killed in an apparent hit-in-run accident.
However, when the couple begins looking into the accident they begin to believe that it was murder.Although I do enjoy Laurie King's writing and the relationship between Holmes and Russell, I believe that Sherlock Holmes himself summed up this novel at the end when he dejectedly tells Russell, "I had such hope for this case...it's hardly worthy of any attention."
Very lovely writing indeed!This one starts with an unexpected visit from an old scholastic friend of Mary Russell who spends her time in the middle East doing anthropological digs, but mainly focusing on the aspect of the role of the woman in those ancient cultures.
Not that you get to far into that, but she brings up a very intriguing piece for the examination and opinion of her one and only female scholar who also has an interest in the subject of the ancient woman and her place in society, our own Mary Russell.
Some things are hard to change.Great story!

Malesef vasat bir polisiye. En sevdiğim polisiye yazarlar listesi yapsam Laurie King o listede olmaz eminim. Birinci kitaptan üçüncüye ilerledikçe kalite düşüyor gibi geldi bana. Devamı çevrilirse seriye dönerim ama onun dışında pek ilgimi çekmiyor şu haliyle.
A Letter of Mary is the 3rd book in the Mary Russell / Sherlock Holmes mystery series by Laurie R.
Holmes and Russell get involved, suspect that Ruskin has been murdered for some reason.
Further suspicion now that it was murder and not an accident.The rest of the story involves their investigation, with help by the son of Lestrade and also Sherlock's brother Mycroft.
I like Holmes, I like Mycroft, I like Lestrade and Russell is OK in her own way.
This is a good book and a well-written addition to King's Mary Russell series, but I was thirty pages into it when I realized it was another The Da Vinci Code ripoffs.
Can't these people come up with their own all-you-thought-you-knew-about-Christianity-is-wrong plots?
Of course some of them were very influential in the early church.
Of course not everyone today agrees with the role assigned to those women by church leaders since.
? What the big controversy?This supposed Mary letter is only the McGuffin: it triggers the action, but is not incident to the action.King drops many Easter Eggs, such as Mary Russell's visit to the Eagle and Child pub in Oxford: future host to the famous Inkling literary circle.
Excellent addition to Laurie R. King's alt-Sherlock Holmes universe, A Letter of Mary finds Holmes and Russell, erm,  rusticating , for want of a better term at their home on the Sussex downs. Both are relieved to get an intriguing letter from Dorothy Ruskin, an amateur archaeologist Russell had met during their last visit to Palestine.Russell is shocked when only hours after visiting the couple, Miss Ruskin suffers an "accident" in London, and Holmes and Russell are back on the case.A very solid contribution to the series.
Nearly forgot to review this! Love this team. Mary has a wonderful personality and can stand up to Sherlock Holmes. It must be very hard and demanding being a partner to this man.The mystery was very good too and I loved the inclusion of Lord Peter Wimsey!
I decided to forge on, though, in the hopes that this will prove better than the last one, and that it might wash away some of the bitter aftertaste of disappointment in the last book.In this novel, Holmes and Russell appear to be settling well into married life after the events of A Monstrous Regiment of Women, when they are visited in their (formerly just Holmes's) home in Sussex by an old friend: archaeologist Dorothy Ruskin, whom Holmes and Russell met on their travels through Palestine in the first book, The Beekeeper's Apprentice.
If Holmes can solve the entire mystery by spending a couple days putting up some wallpaper, then why do we have to spend ages hanging out with Russell while she pretends to be some rich dick’s secretary?
None of the mucking about was even particularly illuminating in regards to her character or her relationship with Holmes.I was, however, amused by Lord Peter Wimsey’s little cameo, especially since not long before he arrived, I’d been thinking that we’d entered the time period when he’d be back from the war and running about solving crimes, too.
Soon after, Dorothy Ruskin is hit by a car and killed, and the Holmes cottage burglarized and turned upside down, the burglars obviously searching for something.The death of an eccentric old woman, and one that seems to be an accident, no less, is not high up on Scotland Yard's priority list, so Mary and Holmes head to London, roping Lestrade Jr. and Mycroft in to their informal investigation.I was enjoying this book quite a bit until about 2/3 of the way through, when it became clear that (view spoiler)[Mary had been rather wasting her time in investigating Colonel Edwards, and Holmes (whose investigation of Dorothy Ruskin's sister mostly takes place "off screen") has the profitable end of the investigation, which we don't get to see.
Preferred this one to book 2 though I'm still not sure if I'm down with this relationship
I don’t think that is any fault to the book, though, just time for me to take a break from the series.Now, on to the nitty gritty.As I said, this was more interesting than the previous book.
On this paper, is what appears to be a letter written by none other than Mary Magdalene and if it is real, would change the interpretation of the Bible.If you’ve read any of the previous Mary Russell novels, which you should, you would know how important this document is to Mary.
"A Letter of Mary" is a papyrus scrap, penned by a Mariam, apostle of Jesus, to her sister Judith of Magdala, commending the carrier Rachel, her grand-daughter to their care, days before the fall of Israel to the Roman heathens.
Days after Dorothy Ruskin presents the gift in a delicate dainty wooden box to friends Mary and Sherlock Holmes, a car runs down and kills the white-haired intrepid archaeologist.
Men with black hair and sharp knives vandalize and steal from the Holmes cottage.
Holmes goes undercover as an itinerant worker for Mrs. Erica Rogers, angry sister.
Another lovely book in this series.I don't have much to say about it, honestly.
I still love Holmes and Mary.
I can't see Holmes having a baby -- although it was hinted that he already had an illegitimate son, but never was talked about again -- at his age, and Mary doesn't seem the mothering type, but who knows!
This series has a lot of books.
Same with Mary; she might be brilliant, but she's still human.
The second book in the series also deals with that, but more in depth than this one.
This is the third Sherlock Holmes/Mary Russell mystery, and I read it, hoping to find the magic that captivated me in “The Beekeeper’s Apprentice.” It isn’t here.
The plot is poorly constructed, mainly focusing on a wild goose chase concerning a character that might possibly be the killer.
Then, the real killer pops in out of the blue, and we realize that we were completely suckered, having wasted our time with 200 pages of nothing that mattered at all!
And then there’s the title, which refers to a letter supposedly written by Mary Magdalene, proving she was an apostle of Jesus.
Does this letter have anything to do with the plot?
Every time I read this I want to learn Hebrew and Greek and go study theology. It's probably a bit late for that, so I'll have to settle for re-reading this on a regular basis and dipping into the Apocrypha on occasion.
It's been two years since I've read the last book and everything came back quickly - the awesomeness of the characters, the interesting mysteries, the glimpses into human nature that are striking, quiet, and earned.The mystery is good but it's not the real reason I'm here.
A gap of four years between the last book and this means that we miss any troubles our leads may have worked through, instead seeing them now as intellectual partners that have a deeper insight into each other than before.Are they in love?
Mary knows he’s hungry for a new case, but she’s reluctant to admit her own itch for a bit of adventure…Then adventure – and danger – come looking for them in the form of Dorothy Ruskin, an old friend Russell and Holmes met during a trip to Palestine.
After all, when ‘A Letter of Mary’ begins, Mary Russell is twenty-three and Holmes sixty-two-years-old, and they’re recently married.
That was really interesting to have in the back of my mind, because I just kept thinking how respectful King is of Conan Doyle’s creation, often paying tribute to his past stories and old cases and ensuring that any Sherlock Holmes fan would find a lot to love in her spin-off series with Mary Russell.

I liked this one quite a bit more than the second book.
I'm still on the fence with the whole Mary/Sherlock relationship.
Thankfully it's less of a 'romance' aspect and more of a 'just a fact' aspect.
This one had a lot of very sly references and name drops (Tolkien anyone?) that really tickled me as well.
I'm looking forward to the next one again.Edit - I'll say the audio books on these are lovely.
I don't like audio books as a rule but this particular narrator is fantastic, at least for me.
So if you're interested in the audio it's worth giving a go.
I am enjoying this series so much. This book was not quite as gripping as the first two (but that may very well be because I was listening to the audio and may have snoozed during important parts). However, the subtleties of the relationship between Russell and Holmes is handled so well. Frankly, I think this book needed more Holmes, and that might have been why it wasn't quite as intriguing. Nevertheless, I shall press on.
A reread of a favorite.
Slightly disappointed with this episode in the Mary Russell/Sherlock Holmes series. It's very good in parts, especially when Russell is investigating the entrenched misogyny of the middle class in Britain in the 1920s, but the rest of the plotline depends on both Russell and Holmes actually missing a clue that unravels the murder at the heart of the story, a clue revisited only in the last couple of chapters. Still, the characters are well drawn and interesting and Laurie King's evocation of the 1920s is often excellent.
I really love these books. They are fun and fast to read. Yet the descriptions are very rich and reveal a great deal of research and attention to detail.I remember reading that the author knew this third story was coming after she wrote the first in the series, and that she wrote the second book as the segue from the first to the third. I felt that showed, as the first and the third were more enjoyable than the second was.
