https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30347.The_Alibi
I know I must sound like a broken record right but I truly enjoy all of the Sandra Brown books that I have read so far. Well, there was one that fell a little short for me but all the others have been such fantastic reads for me.The Alibi is one of my top three SB books. This one takes us to Charlotte, South Carolina where we meet the sexy Hammond Cross and the stunning Alex Ladd.  With each book I have read, there is something a little extra that I end up loving. Whether it is the location, th
This one takes us to Charlotte, South Carolina where we meet the sexy Hammond Cross and the stunning Alex Ladd.
With each book I have read, there is something a little extra that I end up loving.
Whether it is the location, the side characters or even the writing style based on the date of publication, I fall in love with something different.
I loved the depth in character SB gave to Hammond and Alex.
Rory, Steffi, Davee and Loretta all brought something different to this story.
You will love Hammond and Alex.
3.5 starsReview to come.
Hammond Cross, a prosecutor with the Charleston DA's office finds himself stopping at a county fair en route to his cabin for the weekend.
Returning to Charleston, he discovers that real estate magnate and cheating husband Lute Pettijohn was murdered in his hotel suite around the time Hammond was leaving for his cabin.
Even the side characters were all rich and interesting - Davee (Lute's wife and Hammond's childhood friend), Rory Smilow, the police detective, Lorretta, the ex-cop and recovering alcoholic who does undercover work for Hammond and Steffi, Hammond's colleague and ex-lover (and a total bitch!) and the town of Charleston was charming and an excellent location for a murder mystery.
5 STARSWow!!! It’s been a while since I’ve read a Sandra Brown book…And damn, have I missed them! And l have to say that this is a difficult book to review, as I don’t want to slip up and give anything away. Trust me, with this one… Just go in blind. Don’t read any reviews or even plot descriptions. Just start reading. Hammond CrossJust know that there are some incredibly juicy characters that await you. The writing is fabulous as usual, and the intrigue undeniable. Alex Ladd  The dense air was
It’s been a while since I’ve read a Sandra Brown book…And damn, have I missed them!
And l have to say that this is a difficult book to review, as I don’t want to slip up and give anything away.
Don’t read any reviews or even plot descriptions.
Just start reading.
How to describe that burst of clarity when one knows that his life has only just now begun, that everything that’s happened before was rot compared to this, and that nothing will ever be the same again?
It takes place in Charleston, South Carolina.
Go read it!
I really enjoyed this book, as I have enjoyed every Sandra Brown book I have read. Out here, he wasn’t a professional, or a colleague. Or a son. Tension, anger and the weight of responsibility began to melt off him. The sense of freedom was heady. It’s more on the suspense and mystery than on the romance but don’t let that put you off. There are still some hot scenes.  “Dispensing with the frivolity, he kissed her meaningfully. When at last he pulled away, her troubled expression alarmed him. "
There are still some hot scenes.
"What?""Be careful, Hammond.""No one will know I was here."She shook her head.
"Not that.""Then what?""You may have to put me on trial for my life.
How to describe that burst of clarity when one knows that his life has only just now begun, that everything that’s happened before was rot compared to this and that nothing will ever be the same again?
He had never felt like this in his life ...
Even more horrifying, she had unintentionally turned and was looking at Hammond.
His eyes were hot, as though he had been following her thoughts.
After checking the book out by mistake, the plot once again was intriguing but looooooooooooooooooong. The romance was silly.The culprit was well disguised. A good few ideas for mystery authors.
One night of "escaping reality" turns into a long, ominous nightmare for Prosecutor Hammond Cross.
A spur of the moment decision turned into a night of passion with a mysterious woman who was gone by dawn's light.
Hammond doesn't even know her name.
He will before long, and it just may be his downfall.Intriguing characters flaunt their way through The Alibi.
At first they didn't seem to have any connection to one another, leaving me wondering where it all was leading.
I found myself fascinated with them all as the story played out, and I racked my brain trying to figure out their motives and connections to one another.
I know I said the exact same thing about every other Sandra Brown novel I had read, but The Alibi truly is the best romantic-suspense ever to be written. And this time I'm sticking to my guns (well, at least until August, when her next one - Mean Streak - will be out).
Another excellent RS from Sandra Brown!I'm really amazed how she manages to find a really inticate stories, full of tension and suspense!
Overall rating: 4.5 stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No. There were TWO scenes where two different women came onto the hero, Hammond Cross, but the hero wasn't even remotely interested either time. All he could think about from the moment he met Alex Ladd was her and that was in the beginning of the story. The first woman was a woman who he worked with. He had a casual relationship with her
Overall rating: 4.5 stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No. There were TWO scenes where two different women came onto the hero, Hammond Cross, but the hero wasn't even remotely interested either time.
All he could think about from the moment he met Alex Ladd was her and that was in the beginning of the story.
Anyway, when he gets home from his small "trip" (the heroine has disappeared off the face of the earth and he never even knew her name) the woman he works with, shows up at his condo, proceeds to sit on his lap and kiss him.
I loved this slow building character driven murder mystery by the Queen of romantic suspense, Sandra Brown.
In fact for me the motives of each of the characters involved in the murder of shady business man Lute Pettijohn on both sides of the law and the way they intersected were more of a page turner than finding out who actually did the murder.
It's become a bit of a goal when reading a Brown to try and tease out her multiple threads and work out "whodunnit" (I didn't in this particular case) but the way she crafts and manipulates her characters and the reader always ensures much reading enjoyment and again she didn't disappoint.
One of my favourite Sandra Brown novels.Loved the relationship between Alex and Hammond; and Hammond and Davee.Right from the get go Steffi comes across as harsh. I know she was trying to get ahead in a "man's world" but she seemed to hate every female.The mystery aspect was great. All I know is that it wasn't Alex or Hammond. Everyone one else was up for grabs.Wished there was an epilogue.
Casi que le daría un 4.5 porque me ha gustado mucho, pero como novela policíaca, que es lo que es, nada de novela romántica. La recomiendo pero no si buscáis romance.
The absolute best Sandra Brown book ever.
Hammond Cross is the best hero she has ever penned.
The book moves at a fast pace.
The ending is excellent!
so tempted to give it 5 stars but only God rates a 5.
I have 3 copies of the Alibi for fear something might happen to one and then I'd be without.
I keep a copy on my bookshelf, my desk at work, and in my car.
That way I am covered.
There are very few books I am that anal about but this book along with Sharon Sala's Out of the Dark and Anne Stuart's Ritual Sins I definitely covet.
4.5 Captivating Stars!Fantastic!! I've been in the absolute worst reading funk of my entire career as an adult reader. I swear, if this book would've been another flop, I think I would've been done reading for a good long while. But leave it to the brilliant mind of Sandra Brown to bust me right out of it!!! Amazing, unputdownable read!Wish there would've been even a teeny epilogue. Even tho I know it isn't her style.
If you've read my reviews before, you know how much I love a flawed character.
I love that my life isn't perfect.
Hats off to Sandra Brown for writing the most perfectly flawed characters every time.
I'd like to say that this happened with my husband but if I'm being perfectly honest, that man annoyed the ever loving crap out of me the first day that I met him.
I love how all of Brown's novels start with just dropping you into the middle of the story.
4  Stars. Very enjoyable.Interesting to watch Hammond who was in a bad fix. He had strong ethics, yet he was tormented with his lust for a woman. He wanted to do the right thing, yet kept doing the wrong things to help her, yet it was good what he ended up doing and how things ended.Some authors make characters do or say things that are not reasonable or do not fit their characters’ motivations in order to have a plot twist or suspense. That annoys me. This book did not do that. It had twists th
He wanted to do the right thing, yet kept doing the wrong things to help her, yet it was good what he ended up doing and how things ended.Some authors make characters do or say things that are not reasonable or do not fit their characters’ motivations in order to have a plot twist or suspense.
This book did not do that.
It had twists that were well thought out and fit characters’ motivations.
This was good storytelling.Some readers complained about the ending being abrupt.
Book copyright: 1999.
Genre: romantic suspense.
Every attorney/law enforcement officer has significant conflicts of interest--some of which we know about from the get go--and no one is voluntarily or involuntarily removed from the case.
Despite some popular characterizations, my experience in working with hundreds of lawyers is that they go out of their way to be honest and ethical and I simply couldn't suspend my disbelief for the sake of this story.
I won't say that lawyers never make stupid or unethical decisions, but the lawyers in this book were truly, unrealistically, breaking the law or serious ethical boundaries at every turn.
DON'T READ THIS GARBAGE.I received this book as a prize for English when I was 12, and it was my first experience of the modern thriller.
I think there was a murder mystery hidden somewhere in its heart of porn but I can't quite remember any of it because the author was more concerned with telling us who screwed who and who was raped as a child and which girl had the biggest breasts and omg Hammond the lead guy was totally in love with the murder convict.
I gave this book a 3 star rating because I did enjoy it, but I felt that the book took way too long to get to the point and didn't keep me turning the pages quite as fast.This story was about a prosecutor named Hammond Cross who goes to clear his head one evening and decides to visit a fair where he runs into a beautiful woman whom he just has to talk to.
But if she was with him, wouldn't that make him her "Alibi"?
All in all - Sandra Brown is a good author - but I wouldn't reread this one again!
After reading Mean Streak this one felt short for me. A little confusing and the end twist sounded forced. Nevertheless, Sandra Brown will continue to be one of my favorite writers and I intend to read a lot more of her books.
Didn't really dig this SB mystery, I skipped until the last few chapters:(
#retorita2 #retobrownUna novela atrapante acerca de la investigación del homicidio de un empresario corrupto que tenía casi tantos enemigos como habitantes tiene la ciudad de Charleston.
Desde su viuda, socios, hombres de la ley, etc.
Todos tienen motivo excepto la que termina siendo sospechosa, la eminente psicóloga Alex Ladd.
Pero ¿qué sucede cuando el elegido para investigar el caso es el ayudante del fiscal Hammond Cross, con quien Alex vivió una noche de pasión?Acción trepidante en el caluroso ambiente sureño, montones de sospechosos y de personajes secundarios, larga (no me pesó) aunque todo pasa en cinco días, instant-lust/love (no me molesta) pero, algunas cosas no me cerraron y el final me resultó un poco abrupto y con alguna cosilla abierta.De ahí que le bajé una estrella aunque creo que lo honesto serían 3 y media.Pero me entretuvo muchísimo.Dos escenas hot.

(1/2018 - upped my star for this one, though my feelings area bout the same as when I originally wrote this review back in 2014. I enjoyed it more this go around, I guess.)I love most of Sandra Brown's work, but this one really fell flat for me. It was almost 20% into the book before it's clear who the actual main characters are, and the 'romance' of this romantic suspense is about nil. This is pretty much a straight mystery suspense, which I was not expecting, and my rating reflects my disappointment in that.
I loved this book again - loved Hammond Cross and his gallant behavior. I have been little annoyed with Dr Alex Ladd, and her "damsel in distress" act. Good plot line, an you will never guess who the killer is. Great recommendation ;)
Ugh. This novel drove me nuts. It made me mad. But look at the time! It's 1:30 in the morning. Gah.
Really, really enjoyed this book. Prob my favorite Sandra Brown book so far.
Nothing she's written in recent years can match this 1999 murder mystery.The MCs are flawed, vulnerable and fighting for survival - Hammond Cross, for his career, Dr Alex Ladd, for the same and her life.
Big, bad secrets that come back to bite her in the worst way so that even the chance encounter between her and Hammond at the fair is not what it seems.The secondary characters, in particular, Davee (the victim's widow), Smilow (the lead detective), Steffi (Hammond's lover and colleague) are all well fleshed out as is Alex's half-brother, Bobby Trimble.
He has had many affairs in the past and although they are married, live in the same house, she knows nothing of his style or meetings of his life.At the hotel there was also several others who had come down with food poisoning that may have seen the murderer.
She left before the next day and now he knows why she was on the phone when he walked into the bedroom and who she is and who she is related to.Was never just a simple death, a lot of others are involved: unknown relatives, blackmail, insider trade secretsLove that they staged the scene to catch the real murderer at the end.I received this book from Net Galley in exchange for my honest review.
