https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297544.Psychology_and_Alchemy
As my eyes had been scanning the page, my thoughts had wandered so that not only could I not remember what the last sentence I had read said, but I couldn't recall what the chapter was about or, for that matter, understand a great deal of the book and that as a psychological layman I had been kidding myself that I could possibly finish a work written in such impenetrable academic language as to include citations in untranslated Greek, Latin and French.
If I happen to write about a book then you can be certain it is IMPORTANT to those of us "on the Path". This book contains invaluable reproductions of drawings made by REAL Alchemists, in fact the whole book as more illustrations than writing almost. Almost every page as a huge Alchemical drawing that, in my true opinion, can be meditated on and it helps those of us on the Path to GNOSIS.
ამ ნაშრომსაც, იუნგი ქრისტიანობის კრიტიკით იწყებს: "ფორმალურად მოაზროვნე მორწმუნემ ქრისტეს იდეალი საკულტო ობიექტად აქცია და სწორედ ქრისტეს, როგორც ობიექტის, თაყვანისცემამ შეუშალა მას ხელი, სწვდომოდა ფსიქეს სიღრმეებს და მისთვის მთლიანობა მიენიჭებინა".
ამით ის ძალიან გავს შუა საუკუნეების ჭეშმარიტ ალქიმიკოსს, რომელსაც მარტოდმარტოს უხდებოდა კვლევა-ძიება-აღმოჩენა და გამთლიანება.
ფსიქიკის გარეშე, რელიგია არ არსებობს.
მის გარეშე ინდივიდის ცოდვები გარეთაა და შეუძლებელი ხდება მთლიანობის განცდა.
მხოლოდ რელიგიური პროექცია სულს ღირებულებას ართმევს.
"ქრისტიანი, რომელსაც წმინდა ხატების სწამს, შესაძლოა, სულის სიღრმეში განუვითარებელი და სტატიკური იყოს, რადგან ღმერთს მთლიანად "გარეთ" განიცდის და არა სულის სიღრმეში".
რელიგიური დოგმების შეცნობა, ფსიქიკაში ხდება.
ხოლო მთლიანობა თავის თავში მოიცავს როგორც ცნობიერ, ასევე არაცნობიერ ადამიანს.
In this book, Jung describes the 'opus' "as a work of imagination.
The passage says that one should be guided by a true and not a fantastic imagination.
Commenting on this idea, Jung says that imagination is "an authentic accomplishment of thought or reflection that does not spin aimless and groundless fantasies into the blue; that is to say, it does not merely play with its object, rather it tries to grasp the inner facts and portray them in images true to their nature.
This activity is an 'opus', a work" - #CareoftheSoul #ThomasMoore(Oh well!)
It more made me wish for some kind of Medieval Alchemy Guide.However, if you already know a little something about alchemy, or you can put up with footnotes that take up half the page and lots of references to people like Zosimos and Zathura, then the ideas about symbols and dreams and the mind are, as always, totally fascinating.
Or actually, the ideas are totally cool and kind of soothing.
Jung really is a personable writer who likes people.
And there's always pictures!
The pictures are the bomb.
if you can't be botehreed to wade through the very dense case studies, the first chapter is worth reading on its own, just for the insights it gives into Jung's marvelous connections he makes.
Most certainly I wasn't ready for how much alchemical knowledge Jung had in this book.
Hopefully I had the sense by the end of college to hold such texts until such time as I knew more about medieval and early modern religion and alchemy.One thing I did do in college was to utilize interlibrary loan to obtain hundreds of journal articles about Jung and analytical psychology.
By senior year I had my own study carrel and would basically spend the days there, arriving in the early afternoon to pick up the material received through the loan program that morning, then settle in with coffee to go through them and my regular school assignments.
Jung's book introduced me to the subject of alchemy and became a profound influence on me in terms of the way in which I use symbolism in my own writing.
Read this for such chapters as "The Lapis-Christ Parallel" but skip the dream interpretation at the beginning: it's utter garbage but to be expected from the psychologists of his era.
The reason for the latter statement is that, since Jung is "only interested in the collective unconscious" he skips from patient to patient when one person's dreams stop proving of interest.
This is a very good book for anyone seeking a deeper understanding of Jung's views on alchemy and its connection with the individuation process.
Jung analyzes dream images and shows parallels with many of the symbols found in alchemy.
In this book, Jung presents the basic ideas of alchemy, the stages of the work, and the parallels between alchemy, psychology, and religion.
Whatever your opinion of Jung and his theories may be, this book is a wonderful introduction into his views on alchemy and its connection with the individuation process.

Too much alchemy and religion, less psychology than I expected.
Carl Jung puts forward a thesis, which I am going to oversimplify: Alchemy, rather than being a scientific process, was, at least in part, an artistic process by which alchemists were attempting to resolve unconscious material within the psyche by using narratives involving physical matter such as chemicals, precious metals, and stones.
But Jung also includes a description and analysis of dreams from one of his colleague’s clients, offering a very fascinating look into the symbolic relationship between the dream world, the unconscious psyche, and alchemy.
This book feels more like its 200 pages long.
نویسنده کتاب نتایج قابل قبولی از مرور این مجموعه رویاها به دست می آورد: ناخودآگاه جنبه ای تکمیلی در زندگی ایفا می کند؛ بدین معنی که برای رستگاری نیاز به هر دو جنبه وجودی هست.
در حقیقت یک اند.با نگریستن به درون می توان خود را در مسیر رشد و بالندگی فردی قرار داد.بخش دوم مروری بر تاریخ کیمیاگری و مرتبط ساختن مراحل انجام کار با مراحل رشد فردی و روانی ست.
این که تمامی اعمال انجام شده توسط کیمیاگر بازتابی ست از واکنش های روانی او.بخش سوم به شباهت های نمادین ادیان و فرقه های مذهبی-عرفانی می پردازد.
I really couldn't expect anything less from such a genius mind as Jung's, especially after reading "The Red book". I think that anything I'm capable of saying would lower the value of the book itself, therefore, without many words, 5/5 for the great Jung!
Jung was a genius. His introspection was always deep and usually verified by time. Some of the illustrations were very insightful. One serious point that I learned from Jung was "intuition".
Interesting, if tedious at times.
(I recommend working up to it with more introductory texts such as Titus Burckhardt's  Alchemy: Science of the Cosmos, Science of the Soul and Jung's  Man and His Symbols.) That said, this book is well worth the effort.
Whether or not one agrees with all the connections Jung makes, it is certain that his work paved the way for much subsequent scholarly interest in alchemy and other symbolic spiritual vocabularies and is at the very least crucial on an historical level.
Psicología y Alquimia es a mi gusto una de las grandes obras de Carl Jung, que nos adentra en el profundo mundo de la alquimia en relación con la psicología, el proceso de individuación, y la aparición de imágenes míticas cargadas de un fuerte simbolismo.
La obra del alquimista (el Opus) lo explica Jung como un proceso, que el mismo alquimista no comprende en su totalidad, - hacia el desarrollo de su propio ser-, pero que lo lleva a cabo guiado por un deseo inconsciente.
La obra del alquimista la explica Jung como proyecciones del inconsciente, de contenidos psíquicos, en la búsqueda de su propio ser, del desarrollo de su conciencia (Selbst).
"...esta sustancia espiritual es como el Mercurio, que se esconde invisible en el mineral y ha de ser primeramente extraído si se le quiere obtener in substantia. Pero si se tiene ese Mercurio penetrante, se le puede "proyectar" en otros cuerpos y lograr que éstos pasen del estado imperfecto al perfecto. El estado imperfecto es como un estado de sueño: los cuerpos están en él como "los encadenados y durmientes en el Hades", los cuales mediante la tintura divina obtenida de la piedra maravillosa, impregnada de espíritu son despertados de la muerte para entrar en una nueva vida más hermosa."
For anyone interested in the mystery of life and the mind. I recommend reading the intro, then the epilogue first. Reading the intro twice really helped. It will especially interest you if you like dream interpretation (by a master) as well as mythology, the problem of opposites, and universal symbols. A lot of our new age ideas originate with alchemy. Nothing new under the sun.
Who believes that medieval and early modern alchemy was only a misguided effort to transform base metals into gold, or at best a crude preparation for scientific chemistry, will experience a great and probably bewildering surprise. The philosopher's stone can only be acquired and the metal can only be transformed into Gold in the psyche of man and in his soul... with the help of God...
This book was unbelievably illuminating into the psychological symbolism of the ancient alchemical art. Jung was an initiate, and thus understood the esoteric significance of what he was studying, and any explorer of the unconscious through the use of psychedelics will be able to intuitively apprehend what he is alluding to.
Was a good read. The beginning as he follows the inward, spiral like pattern of the man's dreams is incredible. The symbolism of alchemy is extensive and exhaustive. Makes a good summary in the Epilogue however. Definitely not a bad choice.
nice picture book, associating ideas with concepts, on several different levels. Much on dream symbolism, the elements and interactions of these ideas and images reveal motivations, drives and affectations of all of us.
I am a nerd and love alchemy. I love it in the way Jung loves it. So obviously I like this book a lot. If you don't love alchemy you probably won't get into it.
alchemy, dream psychology, individuation...Written in characteristicy style of Jung. One needs to read it at least two times. Each time VERY slowly
Just perfect!
The abstruse theories behind alchemy's relation to the psyche.
I almost cried with joy reading the first 40 pages. I can't believe I avoided Jung for so many years! Simply amazing.
