https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16425.The_Labours_of_Hercules
Only a Poirot completist like me would finish #26, based on either (you choose) a forced or clever premise: Poirot is (supposedly) ready to retire.
So Poirot chooses 12 cases to close out his career (though it really doesn’t), mirroring the 12 Labors of Hercules.
So it’s a nice idea, clever in its way, but the order and comparisons to the original Labors is (my vote on this issue) forced and artificial.
I see a lot of people really voted “clever” on this one, so okay, that just points to Christie as artist.
Much of its charm comes from the clever manner in which Christie juxtaposes the physical strength of the ancient Hercules with the mental power of the modern Hercules (Poirot) and the witty way in which she transforms the ancient stories into a 20th Century setting.The Lernean Hydra becomes malicious gossip; The Augean Stables concerns a dirty political scandal; and so on.
And from a "mystery" point of view, these are very likely the best of the twelve stories, for on this occasion Christie is much less concerned with creating a head-spinning plot than she is in having fun.
Real Rating: 2.5* of fiveThin gruel.The Agatha Christie's Poirot filmed version isn't a lot better, though a lot prettier to look at; it resembles the book not at all.
Of all Agatha Christie's collections of stories featuring the great Hercule Poirot, this is the one of which the man himself would most approve.
The strength is that it seems so perfectly fitting for Poirot and that it allows Christie to be very clever and imaginative as she comes up with modern counterparts for the Labours.
Interesting collection of twelve stories inspired from the twelve tasks of Hercules.
For a change Poirot finds his match and regrets not having read the classics.
In this collection we find Poirot's fascination for his great love.
I really like the ending of the last story-“Humming a little tune, he went out of the door.
His step was light, almost sprightly.
Surely not….” This collection also has a previously unpublished version of the story- The Capture of Cerberus which was not published because of references to Hitler.
Agatha wrote a different version which was then included in the collection.
This one is a special favourite. Hercule Poirot sets out to emulate the twelve labours of his mythical namesake - but using the little grey cells, not muscles. It has got some absolute gems: "The Lernean Hydra", "The Erymanthian Boar", "The Augean Stables", "The Stymphalean Birds", "The Girdle of Hyppolita" and "The Capture of Cerebrus".
3.5/5 stars
Twelve Hercule Poirot short stories, framed by the device of having each story relate to one of the labours of Hercules. Some of them are a bit of a stretch, like the Nemean lion being kidnapped Pekingese dogs. I read this once and found it utterly forgettable. Someone recently requested it from me on PaperbackSwap, and I read the first few stories again before sending it off. I wasn't interested enough to read them all.2.5 stars. For Poirot completists only.
Poirot engages the gray cells a bit.However, while it's fun to see Christie tie in the mythological stories of Hercules to the detective pursuits of Poirot, I have to admit that many of these mysteries were a bit too obvious in their solution.
But it's another if the reader is too easily able to discern the solution before the detective in the story and there's no attempts to put in a red herring or two.Part of this could be the limitation of short story telling.
Not her best work, the short stories are often pretty mediocre and, which is rather worse, Agatha runs off on her pet hobby horse of 'Drugs! Bad! Demon, Devil!' quite a bit. When she does this it becomes slightly reminesent of that gawds awful nightmare she wrote when, I charitably assume, she had gone totally senile and gaga - Passenger to Frankfurt527].
I am admittedly not a short story reader.
I have now, however, read every last Hercule Poirot and the vast majority of the rest of the Christie full-length canon, so I have no choice but to dip into Agatha's short stories.I listened to this as an audiobook, and it was delightful.
The stories are loosely linked with a theme, and there is one character - Amy Carnaby - who shows up in two of the stories.
I loved Amy Carnaby and I dearly wish that Christie had given her a book or two.
The stories, overall, were well written and delightful.
This book is among the better works in the Poirot series. The 1st chapter or the Forward, introduces the premise, which immediately got me hooked. Very different concept.Congratulations to Agatha Christie for convincingly giving practical instances, explaining the allegory in the 12 labours of Hercules!She has grasped the crux of it and has beautifully narrated the 12 stories to show how the labours weren't really insane or fantastical.
"Ada saatnya ketika kita tidak perlu berhemat," kata Poirot. (hlm. 445)"Benar sekali, saat di obralan buku misalnya," tambah saya.Dan, Hercule Poirot selalu benar.
The main reason why I liked this one besides the awesome solution though was that Poirot revealed something about someone else in this story and I loved it.
The solution to this one was pretty odd I thought.The Erymanthian Boar (5 stars)-Due to Poirot still being in Switzerland due to his last case, he is called upon by a local policeman in helping to track down a highly wanted criminal.
The Horses of Diomedes (2 stars)-A friend of Poirot's, Dr. Michael Stoddart calls for his help.
The Girdle of Hippolyta (3 stars)-A man called Alexander Simpson asks Poirot for help when a painting goes missing.
The fussy little Belgian decides, like his mythical namesake, to undertake twelve labours before he retires. After that, he plans to do things with marrows. Like a pair of comfy old slippers, and I don't mean that in a derisory way. A marvelous conceit, each labour cleverly, symbolically linked - the cleaning of the Aegean stables transforms into the hushing up of a political scandal etc. No strain on the little grey cells, just warm pleasure. Christie is literary cocaine.
Hercule Poirot is thinking of retiring and has decided to take on only 12 more cases - 12 cases that resemble the 12 labors of Hercules [since he himself is semi-named after the god] and so the book begins.
It is a delightful romp through 12 stories, some that tax even the unflappable Poirot.
There are several that were my favorite as who was the perpetrator was NOT EVEN CLOSE to being who I thought it was and it was delightful to be proven wrong.
A very delightful listen - Hugh Fraser is one of my favorite narrators and he does Monsieur Hercule Poirot complete justice.
knjiga je zanimljiva, ali je prijevod jednostavno užasan. doima se da prevodilac nije nikad imao veze s engleskim, a bogami niti hrvatskim frazama. patentirana koža? krhotina starog bloka?? doslovno preveden fraze samo se nižu i kvare čitanje.
When a Classicist comments on the peculiarity of Hercule Poirot's name, given how little he resembles Hercules, Poirot sets out to prove him wrong, choosing twelve final cases before his retirement based on the twelve labours of Hercules.Reading Classics and English at university, I naturally love the concept.
Although the rigid structure and the shortness of the stories means that the cases aren't overly complicated, they are all interesting in their own right as well as within the overall premise.
The links between the cases and the labours of Hercules are also brilliantly imaginative.Agatha Christie pulls this premise off as perhaps no-one else could.
Just finished The Labours of Hercules the 26th volume of Hercule Poirot adventures. The premise is that Hercule has made a pact with himself to take on only twelve more cases before he retires to take up gardening. Not just any case but one that simulates the twelve labors of the Greek hero Hercules... not by brute strength but by the little gray cells!So twelve entertaining short stories follow.Obviously Hercule did not retire at volume 26, for there are a total of 41 volumes under Poirot's moniker.
Poirot investigates the murder of Mrs. Oldfield, and from where the rumour originated that her husband Dr. Oldfield was responsible.Not the most gripping story in the world but still one of my favourites from this collection, as it is one of the only murders and I love its dramatic solution!The Arcadian Deer - 4 starsPoirot looks into the reasons of sudden departure of a lady and her maid, the latter of which Poirot’s client is in love with.
An excellent reveal and a heartwarming ending for the book!Overall, therefore, the Top 3 stories in this collection, in my opinion, are The Nemean Lion, The Lernean Hydra, and The Cretan Bull.
The premise of the collection does seem a little forced, but it is after all better than the nursery rhymes Christie was so fond of. Many of the stories feature rather ingenious ideas. But they are not detective stories at all! Where's the detection? - in almost all cases Poirot just has a real good look and suddenly he knows; we aren't treated to his thought processes, and there is nothing else to chew upon at all.
Every story in this book had a unique twist, an unexpected end. Agatha Christie is the master of the red herring, and reading these stories was an education in how to write.
In the Labors of Hercules (1947), Hercule Poirot is visited by his friend Dr. Burton who winds up remarking upon Poirot's unusual given name and is aghast when he finds that the detective has never read the classical stories about Hercules.
Is a missing Pekingese dog really a labor worthy of a classical hero?
Hercule Poirot is outraged, insulted.
Dr. Charles Oldfield has come with an appeal to Monsieur Poirot.
Yes, unless Monsieur Poirot can silence that nine-headed Hydra, gossip, Dr. Oldfield’s practice will be utterly ruined!The Arcadian Deer.
Diana Maberly has come to Monsieur Poirot with an unusual request.
Can Monsieur Poirot convince Hugh that he is not a madman?The Horses of Diomedes.
Poirot and his friend, Dr. Michael Stoddard, have reason to believe that dope – cocaine – is being passed around to young innocents.
True, she is an older Countess, but her age has not faded her beauty – not entirely.
Taking the form of 12 short stories, Agatha Christie's beloved Belgian endeavours to find 12 cases - special cases that strike resemblances to Poirot's own namesake, Hercules.
These stories also mark appearances of not only the always faithful Georges (Poirot's valet), but Miss Lemon and Chief Inspector Japp, and Countess Vera Rosakoff appeared in a few of these stories.
I enjoyed all of these cases - I think my favourite was the first one, "The Neaman Lion." But they were all great, and I personally think that this was one of the more personal Poirot set of stories.
The book is a series of short episodes that echo the labours of Poirot's classical namesake, Hercules.Poirot is completely switched on, even when solving 'lesser' crimes to do with drug dealing, theft, blackmail in addition to murder and attempted murder. I prefer the more developed mysteries in Christie's other novels, but I still found each episode highly ingenious and Poirot as charming as ever.
4/5It was fun to return to the shorter adventures with my favourite pompous fatherly Belgian Poirot again in this short set. Though Ive read it countless times before and yes I did manage to guess a few things, as the story patterns are more obvious to me these days for Christies books. They were all entertaining if some a little predictable. The overall premise of matching each story to a Herculean task was a little far but meh.
Sometimes I read Agatha Christie books as fillers between other books. They always come through to amuse. This book was different as it was 12 short stories instead of one narrative. This made it nice as light reading during the holidays. I haven't read an Agatha Christie I didn't like!
**3.5 stars**I really enjoyed this group of short stories by Dame Christie, maybe because having to fit the plots to the actual Labors of ancient Hercules made her stretch her considerable imagination.
The Hydra in this story was rumor (because as soon as one head is cropped off, two grow in its place), the Augean Stables (which were literally full of shit) dealt with a political scandal, the Horses of Diomedes (who ate human flesh) were drug peddlers, etc.My favorite of the lot was definitely the bringing Cerberus out of Hell as it was both funny and so skillfully done.
This definitely is my favorite out of all her book of short stories.
I loved the stories, loved how they were connected, was planning to give it five stars thanks to quips such as Japp’s "Nobody minds a Tory politician spending money on riotous living, because the taxpayers think it's his own money.
But when it's a Labour man, the public feel its their money he's spending."So it would seem.
But then we come to Poirot who stabbed me right in the heart, when after countless novels and short stories and hours spent together, he revealed this shocking opinion:“From the first I did not like that young lady with her scientific jargon and her coat and skirt with the big pockets.
