https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/684868.Twenty_Years_A_Growing
My favorite book. A gift from my father. Paints a picture of life on the Blasket Island as it was dying away. Beautiful landscape descriptions, images of childhood on an island rich with cultural traditions and adventures.
A powerful, rich, and funny book about a young man's childhood on the Great Blasket island off the west coast of Ireland. I enjoy visualizing the magical scenery where his stories are set. His humor is so understated that it sometimes takes a second read to catch it -- his wit is dry, but his characters are real, true, and human -- probably because they are the real people with whom he grew up on the island.The Blaskets are abandoned now, and have become a nature preserve. This is a wonderful way to connect with a past vibrant culture.
One of the fine “Blasket” books, which are great for providing a link to the Irish peasant storytelling tradition--a tradition that, for the most part, was all oratory prior to the books being translated. And even though it’s a translation from Irish, you can still hear the author’s brogue when he says things like “On the way back we shortened the road with great talk…”
I read this after the opportunity to visit the Blasket Island center in Dunquin, and gaze out at the Great Blasket. Amazing stories of growing up on the island, taking the currach to discover the main land. I'm sure my visit made the descriptions even more vivid.
Maurice O'Sullivan writes of his life in the Blasket islands off the western coast of Ireland in the early 1900's.
Here is how the book begins: "I am a boy who was born and bred in the Great Blasket, a small truly Gaelic island which lies north-west of the coast of Kerry, where the storms of the sky and the wild sea beat without ceasing from end to end of the year and from generation to generation against the wrinkled rocks which stand above the waves that wash in and out of the coves where the seals make their homes." He goes on to tell of his life on the islands, of fishing and hunting and dances and folktales and laughter.
The Blaskets are abandoned now, but with this book O'Sullivan keeps them alive.
Interesting look at what life was like in such an isolated place. Lots of killing birds (including Puffins!), overfishing, drinking, smoking, etc. It sounded like a very hard life, although the author loved it. The descriptions of the land took me back there. The author hated school and here's a sentence from the first page: "The schoolmistress teaching us was a woman who was as grey as a badger with two tusks of teeth hanging down over her lip, and, if she wasn't cross, it isn't day yet."
A great read for anyone that has visited the Blaskets or going to. I wish we had more time to explore this amazing place. Next visit...
Twenty Years A-Growing was published in 1933, four years after Tomas O'Crohan's The Islandman, which was the first of the books about the Blasket Island lifeway written in Irish and republished in English at a moment when "pre-modern" communities of the newly-free Ireland became subjects of fascination to some members of the former colonial ruling class.
This book stands out from the other Blasket classics as a more personal story that's less concerned with capturing the island lifeway than in describing the incidents and emotions of a young islander.
A pleasant view into a life which has disappeared, growing up in an isolated community on Great Blasket, an island off the Atlantic coast of Ireland, at the beginning of the 20th century in the days before television, radio, computers and telephones.
Occasionally there is some excitement, including scavenging after shipwrecks, caring for a boatload of shipwrecked sailors from the Lusitania, and trips to the mainland for wedding celebrations.
A gentler time, which was already disappearing, with the shadow of young people leaving for America in search of their fortune, and even Maurice O'Sullivan himself leaving to become a policeman on the mainland.Interesting and gently told, in the form of disconnected episodes of recollection, in a storytelling style.
The setting is a few hundred souls living on the Blasket Islands, off the westernmost peninsula of Ireland - the Dingle Peninsula.The writer - Maurice O'Sullivan born in 1904 - tells the story of his youth, and a way of life that is now past.
With no TV or modern appliances, and a limited circle of humans who depended on one another whether they might have a preference to or not, his reminiscences of village life, quarrels, crushes, hard work, conversation, and hopes and dreams are truly from "another time."Much of the appeal in this set of tales lies in the Irish sayings, and phrases.
A beautiful, funny, and ultimately melancholy book about a boy growing up on an island where nothing has changed for hundreds of years, until suddenly, everything is changing. I visited a museum in Ireland about the Blasket Islands, where the majority of this book takes place, and it made me sad that the islanders culture and and community is gone forever. Now that I've read this book, it's even sadder, because it was fascinating place with fascinating people. I'm glad they wrote books about it.
I visited the Blasket Island Center on my trip to Ireland - May 2011 - and this book was recommended by our tour director and quoted in the visitor center.
It is a wonderous place of views, sea birds and an old way of life.
This book is written in the first person of one of the last people to live on the island before it closed in 1953.
The language is lyrical as well as poetic way of telling the story.
The characters and the place come alive and you can hear the Irish voice as you read.
So cool to read after staying in Dunquin and looking right across at the Blaskets last summer! I especially loved the beginning, when he goes back to the island from Dingle at age six with no Irish, and the last several chapters when he leaves the island for the mainland. The bits about his astonishment at trains and at Dublin are priceless. Translated beautifully from the Irish into a musical Irish English.
This is a beautiful book , to be read over and over, it tells of times gone by and a simple but harsh way of life.
A sweet acount of a boy growing up in a time long past. A lovely and easy read.
Wonderful, wonderful read.
From the opening paragraph to the last page.
I had started to read a friend’s copy forty years ago and he wouldn’t let it out of his sight.
Finally, at the Blasket visitor center on the Dingle peninsula, within site of the namesake island, I bought my own copy and read it cover to cover on the flight back to Los Angeles from Dublin.
Many memorable passages.
Maurice’s grandfather asks him:“Did you never hear how the life of man is divided?
Twenty years a-growing, twenty years in blossom, twenty years a-stooping and twenty years declining.”It resonated with me.
First published in 1933, it is the stories of the author's childhood on the Basket Islands off Ireland. The title comes from a saying of his grandfather, that a man was "20 years a-growing, 20 years in bloom, 20 years a-stooping and 20 years declining. (The book was written in gaelic "Irish" the author called it, so I assume it rhymed in that language). I've been reading this awhile, hard to get into, but really enjoyed reading it once I got into the flow of language. Beautiful, lyrical descriptions of the people and places.
O'Sullivan wrote connected accounts of his youth on Great Blasket Island, off the coast of southwestern Ireland. This island was one of the last places where people spoke only Gaelic.His stories are filled with appreciation for family and neighbors, appreciation of nature, and respect for tradition.
A lovely memoir by a man who grew up on now-abandoned Great Blasket Island off Ireland’s Dingle peninsula. With sensitivity and gentle humor the author describes a place of great beauty and a way of life in its final years.
I liked this book but it took me a while to warm up to it. It was interesting to see the collision of the Irish and the English, and the way in which Maurice reminisced about his childhood, and briefly his time in the Civic Guard. I also enjoyed the ending - the way everything came full circle.
An chéad úrscéal a chríochnaigh mé i nGaeilge agus an ceann is fearr atá léite agam go dtí seo
One of the greatest pure memoirs ever written.
I liked this one more than Islandman. More about growing up on Blasket Island. I think the voice sounded more contemporary, easier to relax into.
Wonderfully descriptive of a loving community based on a remote island. Superbly drafted speech patterns that are amusing and imaginative. Great insight into community and growing up.
Having visited The Blasket Islands this summer on our trip to Ireland, I really enjoyed this tale of growing up there. I could picture everything and it was a special way to remember our adventure.
A popular classic of Irish literature, This book is required reading for the Leaving Certificate exam.
(Final exit exam for secondary schools in Ireland) Later editions are noticeably altered from this original 1933 version.
It was highly praised by English writer E.
M. Forster.
The book describes life on the Blasket Islands off the Western coast of Kerry, near Dingle (an Daingean).
The islands were evacuated in 1953 by the Irish government.
Along with Tomas O Criomhthain and Peig Sayers, Muiris Ó Súilleabháin was one of the three great writers of that generation who all came from that Island.
I picked up this book while touring Ireland and becoming interested in early life in the Blasket Islands. Written by a Gaelic man who grew up there, the author had virtually no schooling in the matter of writing yet provided an entertaining and authentic voice in a style similar to Horatio Alger. I found it a great read--especially the second half of the book--and loved the folksy stories. He gives readers a glimpse into how life was in the early 1900's in such a remote area.
A fascinating glimpse into early 20th Century live in the Blaskets and other remote, undeveloped Kerry regions. I found the WWI flotsame culture that started with the Lusitannia and more an engaging, easy read. Chronological and supplied with lore-clariyfing footnotes, I found this easier to read than other in this narrow genre.
The writer tells us about a time that is now long gone. It was a simple life but fulfilling in many ways. The people of the Blaskets made a great contribution to Irish life. Their strong belief in religion seems so strange to us today.
at times boring, but interesting to learn about life on the Blasket. May have only interested me because of my own Irish heritage. Don't look for a continuous storyline while reading this, even the characters tend to disappear after one or two chapters, never to be heard of again.
