https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260109.The_Lost_Road_and_Other_Writings
It is in these texts that ‘Sauron’ was first used as the name for the lieutenant of Morgoth and it was perhaps his important role as the key behind Númenor’s fall (along with his off-stage appearance as ‘the Necromancer’ in _The Hobbit_) that may have contributed to his pivotal role in the work which Tolkien was to begin writing soon after and which would become his magnum opus: _The Lord of the Rings_.The second part of the text returns us to more familiar ground as we see the further evolution of Tolkien’s composition of the Silmarillion proper in the form of an updated series of annals (for both Beleriand and Valinor), a reworking of his ‘cosmogonical myth’ the Ainulindalë in which the angelic beings called the Ainur sing worldly creation into being, and ‘the Lhammas’, a text devoted to detailing the development of the languages of the elves within the fictional framework of Middle-earth (and which I found much more compelling than that description is likely to imply).
More unfinished writing of Middle-Earth. Very little of it is entirely new material, but instead is revisions of earlier writings. This needs to be read after the previous volumes of the HoME as very few of the stories are complete enough to give a full or even followable idea of the history. If not for the fact that it was written by Tolkien, I might give this four stars as it was very slow at times, but there are some parts that are real gems so I will leave it at five stars. Not for the casual reader!
This book is about the history of Middle Earth, from the Akallabeth(The Drowning of Numenor) towards the First Age(which ended with the defeat of Morgoth, and destruction of Beleriand). To simplify, its the history of Middle-Earth before the time of Lord of the Rings. It is about how the Dark Lord Sauron came to be, and how Men and Elves came to Middle-Earth.For history and LOTR buffs, it's a good read. It answers questions that LOTR left hanging.
Tolkien abandoned it, and it wasn't really going in the right direction; what we have here is too episodic to be coherent, and in particular, the framing narrative has a set of slightly odd father-son dynamics going on - Tolkien's own parents were absent, largely through being dead, and the same is true of most of his more successful characters (Bilbo's parents are never heard of, he in turn abandons Frodo in the first chapter of LotR, Húrin is a distant captive while his son and daughter fall in love with each other) though there are exceptions (mostly father-figures who are over-controlling - Théoden, Denethor, Thingol).The importance of father-son dynamics extends also to the making of this book, and I was particularly interested in a passage on page 302 where Christopher Tolkien expresses his regrets that the Silmarillion as originally published was not better; he reflects on the role played by Guy Gavriel Kay in assembling the texts but in the end takes full responsibility for it himself.
I liked reading this volume more than some of the other ones.
It contains a story called "The Lost Road" that is about a contemporary father and son who are transported back to Númenor because they are descendants who start "remembering" the ancient language.
Tolkien never finished it, but it's a neat oblique story.It also contains another draft of the Quenta Silmarillion, and now that I know more about the history of Tolkien's cosmology, a lot of this stuff made more sense than when I read the earlier volumes.In addition there are writings about the languages and some maps.
A little less engaging that the other Histories I've read thus far. Looking forward to the 5th in the series, followed quickly (I hope) by the 6th, which takes up the behind the scenes tale at the point in Tolkien's life when he begins the Lord of the Rings. Recommend this one only for the die hard or the scholar.I wrote about the experience of reading all 12 of these volumes here: http://soundscryer.com/2011/06/13/chr... (part 1) and here: http://soundscryer.com/2011/12/02/chr... (part 2). Much more detail about the series in those two pieces.
For an in-depth look at the history of Middle Earth from start to finish, this is the fifth one to read in "The History of Middle Earth" series of books, edited by Christopher Tolkien. An interesting look into Tolkien's creative genius at work! :-)
Only mildly interesting from a literary history virepoint. Hardly the "last chapter" of anything, except maybe Christopher's efforts to peddle on his father's name.
The Lost Road and Other Writings (The History of Middle-Earth #5), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor)
Creo que en parte se debe a que soy una lectora más madura actualmente que cuando empecé la saga y, de la misma manera, el haber leído ya varios volúmenes de la Historia de la Tierra Media hace que sea más sencilla su lectura ya que no partimos de cero.
A todo esto podemos sumarle que tengo insomnio desde hace demasiados días y por tanto leo bastante.
Una vez más considero que Christopher Tolkien hace una grandísima labor aportándonos todo lo que su padre tenía en la cabeza, es decir, por traernos la Tierra Media en toda su descripción.
Again I am reminded, how lucky his son is and in fact we are, that Tolkien lived and worked in the time he did, no computers and often when paper was scarce. Without those two facts there would be very little creative process to unearth. As it was, much of it survived, written on the backs of other dates letters and material, and thanks to the time and dedication of his son, made available to us. It truly is an amazing snapshot of an author creating a complex world.
Precisely - 4.5 stars, for great deal of this 455 pages long manuscript is about creation and derivation of Elvish languages (Lhammas), their etymologies and genealogies, that I do not fancy much.
But, the early version of the Númenorian annals where Valar were much involved in the plot (contrariwise to both official version of "The Silmarillion" and "Unfinished Tales"), along with Sauron's impact on story-line as well as Aelfwinas's song written in the old English poem "Pearl" fashion I fancied much.
The second part is dedicated to later annals of Valinor and Beleriand, and gives insight in step-by-step development of the stories from The Silmarillion, but I found it somewhat tedious and redundant.
"The Lost Road" - the 5th volume of Tolkien's "History of Middle-Earth" - is in fact a collection of writings and re-writings of previous works, so in reality it doesn't bring a lot of new material.
It feels like you're reading the same stories over and over again, but in reality it's another step forward in the development of the mythology towards the final(-ish) version that is "The Silmarillion".
It's a shame "The Lost Road" was never written (Tolkien's narrative view of real periods of human history based on his linguistic knowledge would have been fascinating), but nevertheless Númenor is huge: Tolkien's retelling of the Atlantis myth is a big reason we have the Third Age of Middle-earth as we know it.
Of special significance in this particular volume, p.302: I will say, however, that I now regret certain of the changes made to this tale [of Beren and Luthien, from The Silmarillion]...
So the much touted (by Kay) association with Christopher Tolkien (and through him to JRR Tolkien) is in fact regretted by Tolkien, who accepts responsibility for allowing Kay to manipulate him into altering his father's work.
Christopher speaks volumes with his deliberate choice of those two words "I regret", and it can't be ignored that Tolkien's and Kay's working relationship dissolved in 1975 and has never resumed.
I was really into "The Lost Road" and how those stories eventually turned into the Second Age of Middle Earth and the origins of Numenor.
I still love the stories but at this point, as "The Lost Road..." is the 5th book in "The History of Middle Earth" they are getting rather repetitive.
Truthfully, were it not for the new material relating to Numenor, and how it came about, this book would have only gotten a 2 or maybe 3 star rating from me, just because I didn't feel like there was much else new and note worthy here if one is not quite as into languages as Tolkien was.
This volume of Tolkien's History of Middle-Earth contains one of his most underestimated works - The Lost Road.
In this short novel Professor tries to link his imaginary world of ME and real world together.ProfessorT.A. Shippey thought that balancing between those two worlds was the main Tolkien problem and it drastically affected all his writings (not in a good way sometimes, professor Shippey thinks).
In The lost Road Tolkien not only links them by bringing his Numenor legend into modern geography, but also ties his son to the whole ME story, that actually became true after, when Cristofer Tolkien started to edit and combine uncoordinated wrtings of his father and actually produced whole History of Middle-Earth for example.
This work contains the version of the Simirillion that Tolkien was working on before starting the work on Lord of the Rings, and one of the first versions of the Numenor myth, known as The Lost Road.
The Simirillion is creeping closer and closer to its published form, and through Christopher Tolkien's always thorough notes, you see where he took portions of the published version from.
If you enjoy a literary detective story, then these books are certainly your cup of tea.One question.
Or are there just no early versions of the story in existence?
Another great addition to the HOME series. The first part of this book gives the interesting tale started by Tolkien after "time travel" bet with C. S. Lewis which contains some striking and uncharacteristically autobiographical elements. The Lhammas are essential for understanding what Tolkien meant when he said that, for him, the languages came first and the stories followed. Finally, his most-complete Silmarillion manuscript which he was preparing for publishers is quite an interest read after following the development of his mythology from the earliest works of the Book of Lost Tales.
I really enjoyed The Lost Road segment of this book, but unfortunately is was cut short since Tolkien himself abandoned it. The Lost Road w as very autobiographical in nature and it made me feel closer to this brilliant man and finally understand what he meant when he said he did not invent Middle-Earth, but discovered it.The rest of the book was just more Silmarillion drafts as usual. Glad to be moving on to Volume Six now; I love the first age but I need a break from it after reading eight First Age books in a row.
"The Lost Road And Other Writings" is, like the other books in "The History Of Middle Earth" series, vivid, inspiring and awesome. It is truly a joy to see how Tolkien's world came to be, and to see how his ideas and thoughts for his world unfolded into the timeless "The Hobbit" And "The Lord Of The Rings". Overall, I highly recommend this book, it's by far my personal favorite of the entire series.
Read "The Lost Road" section for a a course at The Mythgard Institute. It was good, but I'm always a little put off by Christopher Tolkien's commentary and notes. Christopher gets a little hard to follow when he starts talking about variations in different manuscripts. Definitely will take some additional reading.I look forward to reading other sections, in particular the Etymologies, but will likely need to put them off until I have more Time.
Oh my! I wish that I could just dive back into this one right away. There is so much interesting information. I suppose that I should take a year and read all of J.R.R Tolkien's fiction, then read all of his son Christopher's studies of those texts. Then if I have time, I can read all of the criticism, and the biographies. Whee! Now, what in the world do I name the shelf(ves) to categorize this?
Can a person return from the Lonely Isle in Tolkien's world? This book gives the answer to that question and whether or not Frodo's voyage was a euphemism for death. Tolkien's use of Time Travel to fill in the blanks between his imaginary world and Medieval Europe masterfully here.
Really interesting, though I only skimmed the Etymologies and list of names because I felt like they would be more interesting when actually looking for something specific rather than just reading it.
Other text providing the evolution of the LOTR universe with an etymology portion. For hard-core fans.
Volume 5 of the History of Middle Earth comes with the usual disclaimer for this series- this is for Tolkien enthusiasts only.The centrepiece of this volume is the The Lost Road, a story Tolkien began after an agreement with his friend C.S. Lewis, in which each would write a Science Fiction story.
Lewis chose to write a space travel story that became Out of the Silent Planet.
Tolkien decided to write a time travel story, The Lost Road but soon abandoned it.
The next part of the book is another iteration of the Quenta Silmarillion and related stories, bringing the tales up to the form they would have when Tolkien began to write Lord of the Rings.
This was a very good collection of stories. A very interesting explanation of every event in the early days of Middle Earth before the events of "The Hobbit" and the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy of novels. The emergence of the Elves, the Humans, and even a small summary of the emergence of Dwarves. Christopher Tolkien also did a great job of explaining how his father came up with the final drafts of each story. Very good read overall.
The depth of this whole series is incredible. This books sections on The Lost Road and Numinor are most intriguing. The QS is also much richer than the earlier versions of the the history. I’m excited to finally start reading about Tolkien’s work on LotR however. Time to move on from this story.
The Lost Road: Best of the Historiesby Philip Panhorst The Lost Road and Other Writings published posthumously by J.R.R Tolkien and edited by his son Christopher Tolkien is a jewel of a volume amongst the History of Middle Earth Books.
Essential to the collection of any true Tolkien disciple for its etymologies of the Quenya and Sindarin languages it even engages the casual reader with such engaging pieces of writing as the Quenta Silmarillion, an early draft of the Silmarillion.
The Lost Road, differs from any other piece of Tolkien’s writings about, Faerie, Arda, Ea, or Middle Earth that the reader will encounter as it is partly set in the modern United Kingdom.
