https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61553.The_Poverty_of_Historicism
Popper attacks 'historicism' as a view which attempts to place all of history within a single law, whereas his own view would fit more closely with a 'piecemeal' reform as outlined in The Open Society and Its Enemies.
It is all right to change society, but through steady experimentation and improvement and then to reduce human suffering; not by grand attempts at social engineering and means to change human nature.'Historicism' is still a very vague and very broad term here, but it might be loosely defined as a method of finding patterns within history and then making predictions based all of them.
The first chapter was supposed to avoid that, but in piling so many contrary points of view under the heading "historicism", it's not especially helpful.I am one of the last people (I hope) that could be called a historicist, but certain ideas he labels as such seem far more valid than his arguments against them.
For example, historicists reject the applicability of the scientific method in looking at history since studying society involves far greater complexities than the physical world.
Later on, he even argues that understanding society is easier than the physical world since you can just assume individuals are rational, and that stating the contrary to this relationship is merely a bias.The response to this...
Mah! Pensavo chi sa che, ma per carità, è abbastanza interessante. E' un po' vecchiotto, ma, in fondo, se le scienze socieli si sono evolute nel dopoguerra è stato proprio grazie all'utilizzo dei metodi di ricerca quantitativi. Lo storicismo esiste più? forse no, ma esiste ancora, e forse esisterà sempre (come è sempre esistita)la pretesa (illusoria) di vedere nella storia delle leggi di sviluppo. Non c'è alcun senso nella storia intellegibile all'uomo, a meno che non si sia credenti. Ma questa è un'altra storia (della Salvezza).
Menyebabkan pembaca teringin untuk berteriak: “Ia tidak semudah seperti itu!”Sungguh sekali, satu indikator kepada kerapuhan tindak kritikan Popper adalah satu-satunya penyejarah (historicist) yang disentuh oleh beliau dengan panjang lebar adalah Tolstoy (adakah penyejarahan (historicism) merupakan suatu falsafah yang dibangunkan secara sedar, dan mempunyai perintis-perintis dan pelopor-pelopor lain yang boleh disenaraikan dengan yakin?) Adikarya War and Peace tulisan Tolstoy adalah suatu gambaran kompleksiti peristiwa-peristiwa di sebalik tabir yang melorongkan kepada insiden Perang Perancis-Russia 1812 dan ia merupakan suatu percubaan secara sedar oleh Tolstoy untuk menidakkan naratif perdana sejarah ketika itu yang menekankan peranan kritikal panglima-panglima perang di kedua-dua pihak: Napoleon, Alexander, Kutuzov etc.
Menurut Popper, karya Tolstoy itu adalah tidak kurang bercitrakan penyejarahan (historicism) sepertimana naratif sediada -versi Great Men- yang cuba dikritik Tolstoy itu.Ia adalah satu pernyataan yang aku boleh setuju secara prinsip dan apabila membaca buku ini, pembaca boleh lihat bagaimana kritikan tersebut merupakan lanjutan kepada pengkategorian awal penulis.
كان بالإمكان اختصار الكتاب في عشرين صفحة الفكرة مكررة من اول الكتاب الى اخره
الكتاب عبارة عن شرح وتفنيد لدعاوي المذهب التاريخاني من وجهة نظر الفيلسوف والمؤرخ كارل بوبر الذي اهتم كثيراً بفلسفة البحث العلمي. المذهب التاريخاني هو مذهب يُتَبع في معالجة العلوم الاجتماعية، يهدف الى التنبؤ بالحوادث التاريخية عن طريق محاولة اكتشاف قوانين أو أنماط يسير التطور التاريخي وفقا ً لها. الأفكار مطروحة بشكل متسلسل والنقد مُدَعم بأسباب منطقية. كتاب يحفز على التفكير ويستحق القراءة.
يوجد ترجمة للكتاب بعنوان بؤس الايدلوجيا
Tarihsicilik ve bilimsel metotların comert kullanımlarının sınırlarının anlatıldığı bu kitap “Bilimsel Keşfin Mantığı” kitabından önce okunması gereken bir kitap. Çevirisi oldukça iyi olan kitap icin biraz mesai harcamak şart. Bu şartlılık Popper’in mantığındaki ayrıntıları anlamak için dikkatli okumaktan ileri gelmekte. Genel olarak benim icin kült eserler sınıfında olan bu kitabı şiddetle tavsiye ederim!
In the meanwhile, Popper published his magnum opus, The Open Society and Its Enemies (1944), in which he describes the origins of the idea of historicist philosophy - he traces it back to Plato, and via Aristotle and Hegel to Marx.I had already read The Open Society and Its Enemies, and was curious if The Poverty of Historicism had to offer any new insights.
I will mention Plato, Hegel and Marx, following Popper's own examples.(1) Plato - according to Popper the first philosopher to truly work out the idea of historicism - observed the continuous change in nature and concluded that all change in this world is degeneration.
Methodologically, this book is a very important work.
Outlining the method of the social sciences, Popper criticizes Historicism at length, and makes some good arguments.
That said, he doesn't have much of a grasp on what history is, nor and overly good handle on Marxist theory.
His opinions on history are laughable, and his idea of methodological individualism is so problematically ideological to almost appear as absurd that he couldn't consider the alternative.

I'm going to rub my two brain cells together this weekend and see if I can't write something meaningful about this thing.
Satu abad setelah Popper mengajukan kritik pada Historisisme, apakah ilmu-ilmu sosial telah keluar dari kenaifannya dengan melepaskan kutukan "objektivitas ilmiah".
Historisisme adalah suatu pandangan yang menyakatan bahwa mungkin untuk memuat satu teori besar yang bisa memprediksi sejarah dan melakukan ramalan dalam bidang sosial.
Hal ini bisa dilihat dari upaya kedua tokoh tersebut untuk melakukan "imperialisme metodologis" ppada ilmu.
Tapi dalam doktrin Anti Naturalis, Popper mengajukan kritik pada Anti-naturalistis yang ingin mencapai Holisme dan Utopianisme dalam Ilmu-Ilmu Sosial.
Hal penting dari penjelasan Popper adalah, ilmu menafikan peranan penting "institusi ilmiah" dan ilmu sebagai "teori sosial".
1. El curso de la historia humana está fuertemente influido por el crecimiento de los conocimientos humanos.2.
No podemos predecir, por métodos racionales o científicos, el crecimiento futuro de nuestros conocimientos científicos.3.
No podemos, por tanto, predecir el curso futuro de la historia humana.4.
Esto significa que hemos de rechazar la posibilidad de una historia teórica, es decir, de una ciencia histórica y social de la misma naturaleza que la física teórica.
No puede haber una teoría científica del desarrollo histórico que sirva de base para la predicción histórica.5.
La meta fundamental de los métodos historicistas está, por lo tanto, mal concebida; y el historicismo cae por su base.
I found this generally compelling if slightly disorganized, even with Popper's caveats about why he was approaching certain topics outside of the nominal order declared at the outset. It certainly appears from the footnotes and references that a clearer picture of several of the arguments would emerge in a reading of The Logic of Scientific Discovery and/or The Open Society and Its Enemies, at least one of which is waiting on the shelf for me. The shorter length of this volume made some of the content feel a little more tractable, though, as those other two tomes are substantially heftier.
Like many of Popper's publications, this is a careful refutation of the premise that social sciences respond to the scientific method. The degree to which this is now viewed as obvious is largely a measure of Popper's success. Finely written and closely reasoned, the key point is that history cannot be controlled to the degree that the causes of effects can be identified.
Very good exposition of the flaws of historicism, both in its pro-naturalistic and anti-naturalistic claims. Very clearly exposed and methodologically sound. Although it has more than half a century, its topics are now more relevant than ever.
Encuentro el libro desorganizado, muy repetitivo, lleno de ideas ya desarrolladas en sus otros libros, incluso párrafos enteros copiados... Me esperaba más.
pisão no historicismo
The reason that the social sciences are, in fact, more complicated than the physical sciences is that they are based upon human psychology.
of individual persons when we analyze and try to understand various institutions and processes in the social sciences.
But these institutions are, nevertheless, irrevocably bound to human psychology.
No, individual desire may not need to be considered in the higher level analyses in, say, sociology, but it does need to be recognized that individual desire, prejudice, and human feelings and thoughts in general are the sole root of all our social institutions.
I 19ve always kinda liked Karl Popper from the very tiny bits of superficial information I had on him from philosophy school books, so I didn 19t expect this to be so utterly hard to get.
In the first part of the book, Karl Popper exposes the two main historicist views, pro-naturalist (claiming society has rules similar to those of physics) and anti-naturalist.
There is no observation that can be made without having already decided what to look for, and Popper says that this is the way historicists such as Marx make up their view of the world, on which they make predictions.
I cannot say I understand everything Popper is getting at, which would require a closer second reading in addition to reading some of his other works, namely The Logic of Scientific Discovery and The Open Society and its Enemies.
By the end, Popper offers up some alternative views on how history may be examined so that we can still meaningfully talk about things like "progress" or "development" of groups of people over periods of time without having a preconceived narrative leading us astray.A book definitely well worth reading, yet it can be extremely dry.
Popper takes aim at the utopian ideologies that were predicated on this idea (namely Communism, as the book was written in the '50s) and shows that efforts to achieve grandiose revisions to society, rooted in a concept of an 'ideal state', are doomed to failure.
The book would be interesting to anyone concerned with the 'science' of the social sciences, the recurrent failure of people to build a 'utopian' state and the ability for humanity's lot to be advanced through using smaller 'piecemeal' experiments that allow evidence for their success to be collected and improvements or revisions then made.
Its oldest forms, such as the doctrines of the life-cycles of cities and races, actually precede the primitive teleological view that there are hidden purposes behind the apparently blind decrees of fate.
Although this divination of hidden purposes is far removed from the scientific way of thinking it has left unmistakable traces upon even the most modern historicist theories.
Modern historicists, however, seem to be unaware of the antiquity of their doctrine.
They believe—and what else could their deification of modernism permit?—that their own brand of historicism is the latest and boldest achievement of the human mind, an achievement so staggeringly novel that only a few people are sufficiently advanced to grasp it.
Popper's vision of sociology is a bit blinkered (I tend toward quantitative research, but many of my qualitatively-oriented colleagues might take issue with his emphasis on model-building and hypothesis-testing, for example), and he seems to criticize the use of evolutionary analogies outside biology just before launching into his highly evolutionist falsificationist view of science.
Overall, I would recommend this book to any serious social science scholar, 'anti-sociologist' who views sociology as a haven for radical ideologues, or curious natural scientist who wonders what we have in common.
Karl Popper in The Poverty of Historicism, provides a fruitful analysis into a group of traditions he calls "historicism." Simply put, these are individuals who provide society at large a specific means of understanding our society and our role in history through a particular social law.
Critics of his characterization should read his other (longer) books to gain understanding of why and how Popper reaches his conclusions.
Merely attacking the conclusions a flawed method for academic discourse.His critique is a worthwhile and necessary read for Marxists, Fascists, and others who view the world as social processes leading to a particular end (so called "progress").
I think that part of my problem with this book was that it is dated -- when there were still active communist governments out there purporting to follow the path of Lenin, it probably seemed a lot more current and necessary to actively refute some of their nuttier theories that were used to justify actions that caused horrible suffering, but today we have moved on to new justifications for committing atrocities so the whole discussion In this book feels like less of a live issue.
I think this will be my favorite Popper book.
In the darkest night, I have definitely been on a quest to unearth myself, and Popper and other critical rationalists have been of great importance by keeping me from betraying myself.
The Open Society and its Enemies warns against Platonic essentialism and Hegelian Geist in such ventures; however, I think I instinctively grasped that.
What an apostrophe on my quest.
I will leave with the quote that captures this book, "if there is such a thing as growing human knowledge, then we cannot anticipate today what we shall know only tomorrow."
In which Karl Popper describe a method of analysing history that he calls 'historicism', proposes some reasons why it might be deemed good, and then attacks it.
But the book is not very easy to follow.
Probably because (1) he often makes complicated arguments in a very abstract way without examples or other means to help readers understand (2) 'historicism' which he attacks IMO are not defined clearly.
For example, he seems to mix two types of thought - one he calls pro-naturalistic and the other anti-naturalistic into the bag even though those two are often very different - makes it hard to keep track who he is attacking.
Popper criticizes 'historicism', particularly its holism, its belief in trends as the proper topic of scientific analysis, and its propensity towards prophesy and utopian engineering. The first two sections of the book offer a mosaic portrait of historicism. Popper then articulates a 'piecemeal' scientific approach in contrast to the all-or-nothing approach of the historicists. His claims are empirical but have a normative undertone in their criticism of utopian engineering.Popper's piecemeal scientific approach is familiar today, so I found his portrait of historicism to be the book's most novel aspect.This book is accessible introduction to the works of Popper.
