https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337132.Flashforward
There are so many ways I could pay tribute to this book (audiobook), which was an awful piece of writing, but an entertaining way to spend ten hours in a car.Perhaps a drinking game (NOT in the car):RULE: Drink every time a character is identified by his or her hair color.*RULE:Drink every time someone uses the word "indeed" in an internal monologue.RULE: Drink every time someone answers their own question within an internal monologue a la "Yes?
9. If you get bored identifying characters by hair color, you can identify them by eye color instead.
Although it is primarily sci fi (set at CERN), there is a murder investigation to widen its appeal, and a poor pastiche of Arthur C Clarke's 2001.After the flashforward, people pool their sightings on a website to see if they match (e.g. if I was lunching with John, was he lunching with me?).
An experiment in particle acceleration and collision causes the entire human race to blackout and experience a two minutes vision of their lives twenty years in the future (from 2:21 to 2:23 P.M. Eastern Time on Wednesday, October 23, 2030, to be precise).
Dr. Lloyd Simcoe, one of the two scientists in charge of the experiment has a vision of himself married to a stranger instead of his fiancé.
A lot of narrative space is taken up by Theo fruitlessly investigating his own future murder and Lloyd trying to sort out his relationship issues with his fiancé.
A small amount of time for most of us, but within the confines of Robert Sawyer's fantastic science fiction novel FLASHFORWARD, 2:17 becomes more than a number; it becomes the insight to what the future holds.
As you can guess, choas ensued if you were one of the unlucky ones awake at the time.
"But of the tree of knowledge of good and eveil, thou shall not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shall surely die." Dang, Mr. Sawyer, what a tangled web you weave.
The premise is that on the day an experiment is conducted at the CERT supercollider, people experience a flash forward of thirty years into the future for two minutes.
The novel also brings up the interesting idea of if you know too much about your future, can that be a negative thing?
Reading the novel, I can see the potential for a great TV series here and why it could be a good companion show for "Lost." You've got a diverse set of characters who are thrown together and must come to grips with a central mystery of what happened and why.
Wow, what to say.As much as I hate to say it, this book was written really poorly.
Hence, I am the exact target audience for this story, but I was sadly left very disappointed, with shattered dreams of what might have been a fantastic book.
Întotdeauna m-au fascinat paradoxurile călătoriei în timp, iar Flashforward conturează destul de bine dilemele filosofice ale acesteia: există oare liber arbitru sau fiecare acțiune este inevitabilă, fiind imuabil înscrisă în timp și spațiu iar faptul că îți cunoști viitorul te condamnă să-l concretizezi?
Încercând să recreeze condițiile Universului la o fracțiune de secundă după Big Bang și să confirme realitatea bosonului Higgs, o echipă de cercetători de la CERN inițiază un experiment ce are consecințe neașteptate: pentru câteva minute, conștiința întregii umanități este azvârlită cu 21 de ani în viitor, în 2030.
Sau când îți dai seama că, pentru tine, nu va exista un viitor?
http://tinyurl.com/yl7nlstForget the book, watch the series.Sawyer is not that good a writer, but his ideas are phenomenal.
Seems like an important point, and in conjunction with the setting for the ending, really important to get it just right.The idea for the novel, however, is what sets it apart-- everyone has a flash forward at the same time and of the same time in the future.
How does that affect the world?
How does it affect our thinking about the future?
As I said, the series is doing a far better job (we'll see how season 1 ends).
As with quite a few people my first introduction to this book came through the show based on it.
Turn the flashforward into some big conspiracy, with heroes and villains and a much shorter time frame.The book though is much more peaceful.
Everything was explained, you don't need to be a Nobel laureate physicist to keep up, and whilst there was a little action it was only a sidepiece, not the main event.
This book is about examining how people would react to the knowledge of what their future could possibly be.
I like to believe we do.
I really enjoyed this book.
I was drawn to read this because I loved the TV show Flashforward of a couple of years ago, the one that didn’t make it past two seasons.
Not even the basis, only “inspiration.” And that’s about right, because there are few similarities except the idea, the black-out/flashforward event, and a couple of characters, or at least their names.
The flashforward of the book is a leap of 21 years, not 6 months, as in the TV show, which creates a whole other set of ramifications.
Would I have read this book if I’d known it would be this stupid?
I’ve had Flashback sitting in my to-read pile for a long time now, but I kept moving books in front of it.
It was a surprisingly fast and easy read, but it missed some of the depth it could have achieved considering its themes.
This book tries to take a scientific approach, but it’s nothing that can really be determined empirically.
Yes, there are some dire consequences to the Flashforward event, but the scientists spend more time debating the immutability of the future than trying to figure out why their experiment caused it.
This book is a solid three star read for me.
Well this was an interesting read - more for curiosity than because it was an amazing book.
Cast your memory back to a short lived TV series of the same name where an unidentified event causes every living persons consciousness to be transported forward in time for just over 2 minutes - and then returned.The TV series deals with the events both here and now - and the implications of what people saw in the future.Now the book - this too follows similar lines but suddenly not only are you dealing with different characters but also a different location.
So for fans of the series I would say this book could have almost have happened along side the series rather than been a re-hashed retelling of the same story.
As I say an interesting book
Given his views about the purpose of life, one wonders why Sawyer writes at all.When everyone on earth goes unconscious for two minutes and sees a two-minute slice of their future twenty years hence, you'd think this would make for pretty good storytelling, focusing on the free will/destiny argument popular since Socrates.
I recommend you conserve your energy and skip this unsatisfying book and instead watch the television series, where the creators are truly creative: the flashforward is only six months away, the characters are for the most part not scientists, and free will remains intact in a meaningful universe and Llloyd Simcoe and his creator are mere bit players in the bigger story.
It's not something I would have picked to read had I not seen the TV series.Lloyd Simcoe, for some reason, reminds me a lot of Robert Langdon.
But Seeing as Flashforward was published in 1999 and the first Robert Langdon book (Angels and Demons) was published in 2000, I guess I should say that Langdon reminds me of Simcoe...I don't really see how Sawyer received so many awards for this.
The IDEAS themselves are spectacular, but Sawyer just didn't know how to write a good novel around it.The ABC series, on he other hand, was a fast-paced, exciting, action-filled show.
I don't think it's just because there's a lot of physics involved, I'm able to read other SciFi that explores concepts that are over my head and I just sort of skim the science-y bits and get the general gist.I don't like or connect with any of his characters.
Second guy spends a lot of the book trying to figure out why someone may want to kill him & lusting for first guys almost wife.I've been trying to put my finger on it, but I can't pinpoint it - but something about how the author writes his characters rubs me the wrong way.
The visions, or lack of, that they experience shape their actions and thoughts for the next twenty years.
The author uses the word "doubtless" an amazingly annoying amount of times.
So we are talking a minium of 320 times.
for the love of all things literature!The ending was ...
For me, it certainly didn't end the way I wanted it to.
And it may have even gotten a 5th star from me had the author not overused Doubtless..."Doubtless she thought....""He doubtless spent time..."over and over and over and over and over and over....
I want to read the book because I think the concept is interest and can stir a lot of discussion about science and the ability to have a glimpse of your future.I found the book too heavy on the technical and scientific description.
If you watch the show, it will not be ruin if you decide to read the book and visa versa.Over all not too bad, although I am not sure that my book club will like the first stab at sci-fi.
I still think there is a lot of discussion potential.
I don't think I would like to see the future!
I'm about 2/3 done already, and I'm pretty sure I'll want to recommend this to others and to read more by the author.I particularly liked that he didn't start out the way so many of these stories that have a large cast of characters do, by introducing us to each backstory before getting to the meat of the adventure.
Aspects of the end got a little far-fetched, as sometimes happens in ambitious hard SF, but I still am very glad I read this and will consider more by the author.
Dr. Theo Procopides, one of Lloyd's colleagues, only saw darkness during this time, and perturbed, the scientists set up a webpage called The Mosaic Project, for people to share their experiences of the flash forward.
To make a small criticism, I expected humanity to be a lot crazier, rioting in the streets when the CERN scientists held a press conference to explain the fact that there may have been a relationship between the LHC and the flash forward, but it was kind of skimmed over.
Then I reach the end and I feel like it could have been more.Flashforward had a great pull - See your own life 20 years into the future for 2 minutes and try to work out how to get there.It was a brilliant start and a real page turner.
It's great.When we reach the second half, it's all about edging towards the 20 year future that had been predicted.
Lloyd Simcoe wants to be with his girl, then he's got doubts, then he's sure again, then he has doubts again....and Theo is so wrapped up in himself that he gets tedious really fast.
The premise is interesting, and fit nicely into place with the many books I've been reading lately about fate vs.
I enjoyed the way Theo's arc read like a mystery novel within context of the greater story.
Without giving any spoilers, I thought the end was too abrupt for Lloyd and really made no sense in the context of the story, and that the rationalizations for Theo's resolution didn't makes sense in his framework of fate vs.
I'd recommend a bit more restraint in this area, or that he should just use a blog.So, overall it's really a 3.5, but I decided to round up because of the nice easy flow and overall interesting ideas.
One of the main character gives a very scientific arguement that the future is set and that it can't be changed.
However, later in the book, some changes are made and some characters change their fates, but others are doing exactly what their visions showed.
No explanation is given for how some people are able to change their future while others can't.I've read that a TV pilot is being filmed that's based on this book with the idea of telling how a variety of characters react to the various fates the flash forward shows them.
I did enjoy this book, but I went into the book thinking it would be like the TV show; and hoped I would give me some closure.
With this mentality it took me a while to get into this book.
The book is nothing like the TV show.
While the TV show was a fast paced, exciting show; the book was more a philosophical look at what life would be like if we knew our future mixed heavily with the scientific theories behind time travel.
If you are going to read this book, you need to remember that it is nothing like the show.
As people debate whether the future is fixed or not, Michiko comes up with one way to know: run the Flashforward experiment again, and see.I knew absolutely nothing about this story before I started reading it, and I haven't read anything by Sawyer before so I didn't know what his writing would be like either.
Despite the international cast of characters, Sawyer puts an emphasis on those he's more comfortable with -- as you would, I suppose, though I wonder if I can denounce it as lazy writing?Thing is, people use the term "ideas-driven book" to excuse all or any flaws in the other aspects of the novel, especially with high-brow science fiction which strives to be ideas-driven, and I just don't think that's a good enough excuse.
I've never read a time-travel book before that didn't have time-travel in it.
The basic premise is that an experiment at CERN using the large halon collider produces a quirk, in which the entire human race is shown a flash from the future.
Like Rendezvous With Rama, which left you wanting more, but also satisfied that the realistic perspective was perfectly enough, this book could have finished with them never truly knowing what caused the event to take place.Not only do they reproduce the experiment, but (view spoiler)[he gets a little carried away with it.
Along with more of his books.
I was a huge fan of the TV series, so I thought I would try the book.
I found the characters, plot, and writing style to be so boring that I couldn't even finish it.
Also, some of the science discussion among the characters I thought was ridiculous.
In science fiction, especially, you can get away with preposterous scenarios and also ridiculous dialogue, as long as the characters and writing are decent; this was not the case with this book.
I don't think I want to ever read another book by Sawyer.
It's not about time travel, per se; it's about the consequences when humanity simultaneously gets a brief glimpse of their lives, 21 years in the future.The best part of the book is the interesting sidelines into physics.
His body simply does what it normally would do, 21 years in the future.
People learn exactly when the time jump will occur, so they could simply write on a piece of paper something like "buy Stock XYZ", and have the paper handy when the time arrives.
So why don't they, especially since we learn that the future is not deterministic?
Interesting concept but frustrating to get taken out of the story for thinly veiled science lectures that didn't make sense for the characters having those conversations. An interesting application of quantum theory though, and I was intrigued by the immortality concept that gets mentioned in passing. Also, I'd be fine never reading the phrase "time immutable" ever again. He must use it 50 times.
There was a little too much science in the fiction for my tastes, but this was a pretty cool read.The ending of this novel was both pleasant and anticlimactic at the same time. That's also a good way to describe the overall feel and pacing of this book. No real highs, nor any real lows, just an even ride with a few bumps in the road and sites to see along the journey.
Of course, such books run the risk of becoming too didactic, and unfortunately, there are moments in Flashforward where the plot grinds to a noticeable halt as Sawyer explains physics, using his characters as flimsy mouthpieces for various theories.Ultimately, the book never does make up its mind about what sort of universe we occupy.
Sawyer presents the "block universe" eternalist model as the "accepted" model of the flow of time by physics, when it isn't the consensus, but then goes and demonstrates that the future is not fixed by killing off a character who's supposed to be alive during the flashforwards.
