https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/505576.Top_Girls
پرده اول نمایشنامه دختران ممتاز نوشته کاریل چرچیل، در رستورانی آغاز می شود که شخصیت هایی تاریخی برای نهار یکی یکی می آیند و آن جا دور هم جمع می شوند.
داستان هایی عجیب و آزاردهنده، که معمولا توسط یکی از دیگر افراد قطع می‌شود.در پایان نمایشنامه، خواننده باید از خود بپرسد «رسیدن به موفقیت به چه قیمتی؟» زنان این نمایشنامه پس از قربانی کردن چیزهای جبران ناپذیری به این جایگاهشان رسیده اند.
آن ها خودشان را از داشتن ارتباطی معمولی و طبیعی با مردان، زنان و کودکان محروم کرده اند.
I guess playing the waiter would come a close second, just so I could overhear the conversation on offer between six charming ladies, five of which return from history.There is the host of course, Marlene, out celebrating her job promotion at a swanky London restaurant.
This sets the scene (act 1 from 3), of Caryl Churchill's 1982 play which premiered at the Royal Court Theatre, London.
I didn't actually expect to say things like, "it's clumsily written" or "the plot is hackneyed" about a play someone is given to read in lit class.
The end of the play feels like one big question mark, which is not a bad thing, but certainly seems to rummage through the reader more than the reader can hope to rummage through the piece itself.You think you're going to read about fictional characters, about other people's lives.
Yet this play is like a stick poking into your brain and your heart and your guts, a mirror which forces you to examine your own reflection.
I know exactly what it's like.
As said about this play "It raises questions about Feminisn ,but doesn't answer them" and what a kind of depressing, fruitless and vain questions it raises?
Whenever I read a five star review of this play – and, my dear reader, there are so many – I go back and stare at my copy for a few hours, wondering if some crazed worker at Amazon.com went off the deep end and ripped all this "golden content" out of my copy and replaced it with a hundred and fifty pages of vomit inducing swill.Now, I am not intolerant of poorly written, pretentious literature *cough* , and I’m sure that Carly Churchill’s “Top Girls” does have some level of literary worth *double cough*, but seriously people what do you see in this?
I can see how some might feel this is a cop-out, but still: I found the play moving.While still a topic in debate, the play does date itself slightly in that, when it was written, the subject was bit newer and probably had more teeth.
Churchill seems to address this question directly with the first Act, in which historical and fictitious women of the past gather for dinner and we are told flat out that this is a subject that dates back over a millennium ago (and no, this scene is not just intellectual masturbation, it actually works!)
I studied this for a class a couple of years ago, but I wanted to give it a proper read-through on my own.
As a written piece, it can be a little difficult to follow because the characters often speak over one another (as indicated via markings on the page), but this is really only in the first scene where there are seven characters in conversation.
I love how Churchill brings in historical and literary women, double- and triple-casting actresses to create parallels between them and the modern women.
It's a pretty scathing indictment of American feminism and Thatcherism, and the playwright really explores those themes well through these characters.
Act I of the play was intriguing and examines the social achievement of women through the legendary and historical female characters who attend Marlene's luncheon.
Isabella Bird's character in the play represents that part of being a successful woman- one should not be bound to a husband, trouble with having or raising children, yet instead carve out their own paths in life.
Nijo, another of the historical characters explained how when she was in favor in the court of the Emperor, she bore other children to him yet saw her daughter only once before she was killed because the child was female, which raises the issue of legal rights for women.
Her characters who all seem to merge into one canvas from different times: may it be a seperation of few months or a few centuries, they all seem to be raising the same issue.It seems as if society in Churchill's play is like a person who is clothed differently with the passing time.
Another interesting factor that exists in the play is the idea of mothers and their children.
All women seem to mourn the idea of losing their children, not the fact that the said child is lost.
Even Griselda seems to love her children because that is the proper way of things to be done.
A very detailed intelligently written play it was ! Every single information you're given is so cleverly put in its place that makes you want to stand up clap your hands for Churchill!And yes I did cry at the end so how can I not like a play that moved me this much !?Loved different female characters Churchill created. I could identify with each of them in a different way. I felt like each of them carried a little part of my soul.
Very interesting approach to playwriting here. It mixes historical figures at a dinner party, with Marlene, being one of the only consistent characters throughout, as she works in a temp agency. Reminded me of Ali Smith's writing with the strong feminist themes and blending of modern and historical time frames. Looking forward to unpacking this in class.
I was in this. In England, on a high school summer program. I learned how to pour tea properly thanks to my role. Some scenes were good, some were overly dramatic, some weren't as funny as they should have been. But how many plays do you get with an entire cast of women other than Nunsense? Points!
Ok so I wanted to be sure about my thoughts on this, so I've read it twice and I think my mind is made on it.I know it's probably clear from the rating but yeah, I didn't enjoy Top Girls.Now I understand that it's deliberately alienating, with the whole idea of Brechtian theatre, but the bottom line is I couldn't find a way to enjoy this.
I think portraying a message through art is one of the best and most essential things about the medium, and there are many plays and books and films that do this very well.
Oh wow this was magnificient.
Male-centered world is criticisied.
To be great, woman sacrifices their goodness as Marlene sacrifices her motherhood to have a succesful career in which to be succesful is required competition in capitalist and materialist world.
As Irigaray tries to find an alternative to the constructed system, Carry Churcill gives us an alternative character Gret who is trying to be great and good at the same time.The first act gives middle age's woman problems and Churcill shows to reader that not much has changed.
At the end of the book, same problems are still lying on the surface.
It was really interesting for me reading such a play. It really tackles on the issues of what it means to be a successful woman in a male-dominated world, and what are the boundaries and obstacles that prevent women from getting their right positions in life. I'm really happy I got the chance to read it for my Drama class; it was enjoyable.
complete and utter rubbish, not going to read it again
I love this play so much.
Kinda mixed feelings for this one..I really liked the idea of the first scene, where a handful of ghost female characters from different spaces and times come together to celebrate and talk about their past lives, whose common grounds are not that stable afterall.
The truth is, though, that I was starving for a positive light throughout the play, but misery and inner terror prevailed - Thatcher was also on her way toward the end of the play, like she marked the very end.
Female solidarity is conseidered to be an illusion, just like family love.
I would like to read another play by her, but the thematology needs to be sth different..
I guess that's a hate it or love it play, and for me, it was love to uppermost my mind.
Bringing together women(and having them interact with each other) of different historical and social backgrounds reveals Churchill's genius.
The play does not address a single issue, and it might seem a bit confusing, especially due to the fact that all participants speak on top of each other, basically ignoring and not giving a fuck about the other's stories, focusing on themselves and their own personal afflictions.
I guess that this miscommunication is part of Churchill's plan, in order to highlight women's suffering and struggle in general.
All acts brought to mind the theatre of the absurd, Pinter's and Beckett's plays that I've read.
But regardless of that, it's a wonderful play by Churchill.
From First wave feminism to postfeminist, from right wing feminism to left wing feminism, from the 'them' and 'us' feminist standpoints to Thatcherite feminism that some claim gave birth to the postfeminist ideology....the play covers it all.
Interestingly, I could also trace some similarities between the play and a typical chick lit novel like Bridget Jones(something I was rather proud of) :DThe best part however, is that Churchill does not favour any one ideology and let's the reader be the judge.
pitää lisää tää ja rosencrantz tänne jotta muistaa että nämähän on best näytelmä hommia mitä tiijän. paljoa noista hommista en tosin tiiä
Read this for class. It was an ok read not really that engaging for me, although it was a play so maybe the live version would be better.
However, it proved to be the worst one out of the four I read, especially due to the confusion it provided me with.
However, I was unable to find something unique or even shocking about this play that provided me with some huge, grand message.
The message or 'moral' of the play was just cheesy and expected, which made me dislike the story more.What I did appreciate was the abundance of characters Churchill wrote about, and how they were all women.
While it did entertain me with its fast-moving plot and interesting characters, the story lacked a unique message that will stun its future audiences.
Confusing at times but after discussing it in class I can see why it is a significant book
After reading this play, just one word comes to mind; huh?This is just so confusing.
There isn't a plot, there isn't a story-line or any type of goal for Marlene, and it just doesn't make any sense.
I also understand that the ladies present at the dinner party in act one have all experienced problems that women still face today.
I suppose that this is quite a clever concept; bringing five women from different eras and backgrounds into the modern world to discuss the issues they faced in their lifetimes.
Beginning with a dinner party featuring five women from history filled with feminist discourse exploring attitudes of women through the ages, it soon zeroes in on Marlene, a working woman who's just gotten a promotion.I was grateful for how in-depth the annotations were, clearly indicating where characters were interrupting, and how the flow of conversation continued further on down the page.The only downside is that it doesn't flow.
Should be interesting to study, though.EDIT 07/11/17:Yep, this one gets better after a second reading.
Bumped up to five stars because I actually really like the constant interruptions and the way that it symbolises the hierarchy, everyone climbing over each other while striving to be the 'Top' girl.
The structure of it was complex at first, I couldn't adjust to the meaning quite quickly but then everything was pieces together as I read on.It saddens me that as different as each of the characters were they still were insanely unhappy.
I don't want to spoil any of the events but there is something in the play that shocked me.
It definitely made the whole play a whole lot more interesting.
If only there was a sequel!If I write on I'll spoil the play since this was a university assigned reading and we worked on it in depth.
A lot of controversies arise from this play.
I'm ashamed to say that I didn't *get* this play. I had to study it as part of my undergraduate degree and it's one of the set texts I avoided where I could.I understand that all the debates on feminism etc. were a product of their time (the '80s) and that this play deals with important, complex subjects. But I didn't care for much of what was going on. The only section I liked was when all of the different characters from different countries and periods of histories gathered at a table together - interesting stuff.
i only read this play because i had to pass the DRAMA exam and eventually graduate , well i found this book really confusing characters from past and present mingling together interrupting one another , total chaos , but i loved the third part where the scene takes place in the kitchen discussing interesting subjects like poverty and the dominating system of the Iron Lady ... get tough or die
