https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6255144-the-black-circle
The best installment so far! The story is very exciting with much interesting information about the Romanovs. Amy and Dan finally managed to persuade one of their opponents to cooperate, and they also gained a powerful ally. Ian and Natalie failed badly, and Irina is weirder than ever. I want the next book!  On the far end there stood a massive statue of a woman holding a sword over her head, rising like a skyscraper into the cloudy horizon. They'd seen it in the distance as they raced across th
The best installment so far!
The story is very exciting with much interesting information about the Romanovs.
Amy and Dan finally managed to persuade one of their opponents to cooperate, and they also gained a powerful ally.
On the far end there stood a massive statue of a woman holding a sword over her head, rising like a skyscraper into the cloudy horizon.
They'd seen it in the distance as they raced across the city, but up close it was a frightening spectacle."The Motherland Calls," said Amy.
"It's twice as tall as the Statue of Liberty.
The Black Circle begins with a telegram that lures to Russia 11 year-old Dan Cahill and 14 year-old Amy Cahill—a brother and sister team who are in the race to uncover the 39 clues leading to great power.
I must admit I had flashbacks of James Bond spy movies as I read this book.What caught my interest this time is that Dan and Amy go through a whole risky adventure, even traveling from Cairo to Russia on their own without Nellie, their au pair.
And second, I thought the pace was good - lots of action and a few more details falling into place.But - some items fell flat, in my opinion.
I know the books aren't meant to be plausible, but I think there should be logical explanations as to how other team members manage to find out where Amy and Dan are heading.
I don't like the fact that they just show up in the same place.
Also,I can't remember the kids' exact ages, but I believe Dan is like 11 and Amy 14 - and he manages to drive a motorbike and she drives a car and truck.......
This book also made me feel curious about who NRR is.
And at the end...well, almost at the end, you'll know who HE is :) but sometime there, I doubt her because SOMEONE called her and it was ____!
But then again, HE did help them and HE turned out to be good :) So what the heck, read it to know who I'm talking about.
Of course, you'll be totally shocked who He/SHE is :)anyway, this also made me doubt another someone who is close to Amy and Dan. That's what this book will do to you.
A game of cat and mouse...A strange telegram lures fourteen-year-old Amy Cahill and her younger brother, Dan, deep into Russia and away from the only trustworthy adult they know. Signed with the initials NRR, the telegram launches a race to uncover a treasure stolen by the Nazis and the truth behind the murder of the last Russian royal family. All too soon, the treasure hunt starts to smell like a Lucian trap. But the bait might just be irresistible...what will Amy and Dan risk to find out what really happened on the night their parents died?
As far as I know, The Black Circle marks the halfway point for the 39 clues series.
And while this was definitely one of the better books, I find myself able to list more things I *don't* like about the series, than I do.
I'll admit--I want to know the mysterious of what the clues add up to.
I think those characters are why I keep reading these books, despite my lack of enthusiasm for the protagonists.Honestly, The Black Circle had great pacing, some nice interaction with Irina, Hamilton and featured a new cameo I won't spoil you for.
In this, Amy and Dan find themselves traveling to Russia (without their au pair) and following clues that a mysterious benefactor has left them, eventually having to work together with another team in the race to solve the puzzle in the time limit they're given.
I loved the fact that this took place in Russia and featured all sorts of Russian history.
I also didn't like the way their au pair was written out of this book; it felt too fantastical.
And the resolution to the clues they're following in Russia felt disappointing, blending fiction with history in a mix that, in my opinion, was not that great.
I'm going to give a generic review of the series.
All three of us that have read 39 Clues thought Book 2 the weakest of the series.
But as one son said, after finishing the series, "Gordon Korman seems to be getting better.
I think he's a decent author now." Some of the books are better at teaching the history part, others just barely skim the surface and you don't really learn about the person they're 'highlighting'.
I do, however, think it has more redeeming qualities than most kids literature and I'm happy to see my boys devouring a book every day or so.
Then I have another question about Amy: how was putting on a wig going to make her look any older than fourteen?
How was Dan able to handle that motorcycle he was driving?Over all, this book was incredibly boring.
Even when there was a scene that was supposed to be action packed I was bored all the same.
I think the climax was supposed to be the part where an ex-KGB spy was about to stab the main characters with a dagger.
It's a children's book, after all, the main character's aren't going to be stabbed to death.
In the past Dan and Amy have been chased by other families but have not formed any alliances that lasted throughout the book.
It was refreshing to see them make an alliance with the Holts that lasted all the way through the book.
She is probably the one character that I have loved to hate.
I actually saw a part of her heart that makes me feel somewhat sorry for her.
They actually had to work together more and fight less.
The setting was well described and the characters were developed a little more in this book.
Загадок становится все больше. Даже не знаю что будет с героями в следующей книге, но мне уже не терпиться прочитать продолжение. И да, я как Хатико жду когда любовная линия сдвинется с мертвой точки. Если ее провернут правильно, она будет потрясающая. Итог: 8 из 10
The Black Circle (The 39 Clues, #5) , Patrick Carmanعنوان: حلقه سیاه - کتاب پنجم از 39 سرنخ؛ نویسنده: پاتریک کورمن؛ مترجم: سیدامین حسینیون؛ تهران، ویدا، چاپ دوم 1392، در 143 ص، شابک: 9786002910219؛
This book was mainly that sometimes the reward is worth the risk.
In this book and series the reward is nothing short of the chance of world domination, the reward making you the most powerful person in the world.
In this book they are in Russia, being hunted down by many Lucians as they are too close for comfort to uncovering many important Lucian secrets.
But with the help of their secret helper, "NRR," they find what they came for and more.
But they still stay in the hunt, showing time and time again that they think the rewards of the hunt are worth the risks for them.
Book five in the series and you guessed it - author number five as well. This one was similar in structural design as the others with more action and adventure than you can poke the proverbial stick at but it was all pretty soulless and dreary stuff. Not much to see here, move along to another place in the book shelf.
I thought this book 39 Clues” The Black Circle” was the best out of the series so far because of how in depth it gets with the characters and how they face new challenges.
A lot of the characters are starting to team up against Dan and Amy.Dan and Amy get this telegram from an unknown source but there were no clues who it came from.
Dan and Amy were then followed to an airport where a telegram told them to go.
The taxi driver that drove Dan and Amy put a tracking device in their bag so Natalie and Ian could follow them.
Dan and Amy continue their search for the for the next clue.Dan and Amy leave their hotel to find th
It seems that book three was just a hiccup for this great series.
My only regret is that the books seems to be maintaining a riduculous price-to-number of pages ratio.
After being forced to leave their au-pair, Nellie, behind, Amy and Dan head off to Russia following the instructions of a mysterious person known only as "NRR".
They travel to many historical monuments and the deeper they dig, the more it becomes clear that this piece of the bigger mystery is tied to Rasputin and the Romanov royal family, Annastacia in particular.Unfortunately, the Holts, the Kabras, and Irina are close on Amy and Dan's heels.
I was also very disappointed in the inclusion of NRR.
I always found it appealing that the kids were able to figure out the clues on their own based on each's particular interests and talents.
But in The Black Circle the kids don't figure out a single clue but are given each without them even trying!
And the kids, who aren't suppose to trust anyone, never once stop to wonder who NRR is or why he/she is helping them?
The book was fast paced and it will certainly keep kids interested in the series but as a whole I didn't think it was as strong as some of the others.

This has been my favourite book of the series so far. I like the Irina character because she has changed over the course of the series. The children moved around a bit more in this book than the others I think. I can't wait to finish the rest of the first series.
I think the series is getting more interesting as it goes, but if the secret of the 39 Clues turns out to be something typical like the secret to making gold or lame like love, I am going to be so annoyed.
Could've been better if Queen Nellie was there but I'm so diggin' NRR! :D
برای اولین بار تونستم بفهمم اینا چی میگن:دیقشنگ بود.. فقط نفهمیدم اون یه تیکه کهربا ـه چی روش یا توش بوده که قرار بوده زیر دماغشون باشه:/
Lijepa knjiga, uzbudljiv nastavak, Dan i Amy su stvarno simpaticni likovi, pravi djecji..Dobro je sto u svakoj knjizi sele u drugu drzavu/kontinet..
What a strange book series, whenever I think it gets complicated and meaningless, everything becomes clear ^_^. So, 5 books, 5 clues.
Another decent Cahill adventure
I thought this book was great because it was action packed and very intense. I would dedicated to kids 10 and up.
awesome. love it.
I didn't like how Amy and Dan were so completely on their own on this one, especially since they were being trailed by three other teams, and I would have liked it if Nellie had come along (at this point Saladin seems pretty useless to the plot).
The reveal of NRR was far too quick and the last two or three chapters probably could have been stretched out a bit more.
In the end, this book was fairly interesting and the writing wasn't terrible, however there were issues with characters, inconsequential plot points, and unrealistic storylines.
Reviews of this series at: https://feministquill.wordpress.com/2...At the behest of a mysterious contact who claims to have known their grandmother, Amy and Dan Cahill travel to Russia to unravel a series of clues connected to the Lucian stronghold there, and also solve the mystery of whether Anastasia Romanova did really survive the assassination of the Tsar's family.
But if one were to take a census of the women who ride motorcycles in the country with the second largest population in the world, one would find that the number was so miniscule as to be practically invisible.
