https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/863480.The_Psychology_of_C_G_Jung
It's a short book, just 152 pages of text, and Jacobi covers Jung's basic concepts.
Though I briefly studied Jung's ideas in college, it was a long time ago and I remembered just enough to confuse myself.Jacobi's writing is clear, and the book is well-organized.
Jacobi worked with Jung for many years, and she has a commanding grasp of his psychology.There are a number of terms that Jung uses that have specific meanings, such as "archetype," "psyche," and "unconscious." But many of these terms have quite different meanings in our contemporary culture.
يتناول الكتاب أفكار يونج الرئيسية، ولكن بأسلوب أقل إمتاعا ووضوحا من أسلوب يونج نفسه، فهو يفتقد لسلاسة يونج وتكثيف أفكاره ولمحاته الذكية والتواءات عباراته "الأدبية" وغمزاتها والتى يُضمّن بها بعضها ببعض أفكارا تجمعها المفارقة. لقد راجعت بقراءته قراءات يونج التى مر عليها بعض الوقت، ولكنه لم يُضف لى أى معلومة جديدة ولم يفك أى معضلة شغلتنى فى هذا المجال. وحلاوته الوحيدة تتمثل فى أنه يتناول يونج ويخصه. 0
ساعدني على فهمه قراءات سابقة لبعض أجزاء نظرية يونغ.إن كان يهمك معرفة نظريته في الأنماط النفسية فقط فبإمكانك التحقق من هذه الصفحة الغنية جداً بالمعلومات:http://www.businessballs.com/personal...نظريته هذه اشتهرت بعد أن تم تطويرها لمرحلة نهائية تعرف الآن بتصنيف مايرز بريغز أو الشخصيات الستة عشر أو نظرية الـ MBTI لمعرفة المزيد عن هذه التصنيفات الستة عشر، تحقق من هذه الصفحات لمدونة الأستاذ الكاتب جاسم الهارون الذي قام بعمل متميز وسبّاق لترجمة وتوضيح هذا الموضوع بشكل كامل:http://www.jass.im/si/per/intro/http://www.jass.im/si/per/16types/إختبار تحديد الشخصية:http://www.jass.im/si/per/ptest/__الآن نعود للكتاب:يشرح الكتاب ويلخص نظية يونغ في علم النفس التحليلي الذي يعرف بأسمه، بشكل علمي ونظري.
An excellent and readable book about Carl Jung's analytical psychology, with a Forward by Carl Gustave Jung. I found it very helpful and informative. I do recommend it, especially, if you are new to Jung's sophisticated ideas and concepts.
This book goes a step further than Freud in the aspect that ritual is embedded deep within the human soul that derives from the primal evolution of man.
For example, the 'Hero' effect in which all of us has experienced at one point in our lives that derives from the unconscious place of the powerful inner driving force of the soul or the libido (the soul's driving force).Jung goes on to explain that the unconscious reveals itself through the symbolism of the ancient objects.
This book is a must read for it is one of the foundations of psycho-analysis.
A shallow introduction to Jungian concepts.
It asserts much without giving historical context or the evidence that might have led Jung to his conclusions, and so it will not do much to convince a critically-thinking reader.
There is no real reason to read this book, even as an introduction.
It is not any easier to read than any of Jung's books, and it does not explore anything in more detail than Two Essays on Analytical Psychology, which has the inimitable advantage of coming from Jung's own hand.
Since Jung's book has everything that Jacobi's lacks, I would highly recommend reading that instead.
Hard to follow in some areas but a very comprehensive catalogue of Jung's work.
Easily the best summary of Jung's work I've found so far.
Dated is a few ways (men vs women) and yet relevant in others (our growing dependence on technology etc). I just wish she hadn't written it with such a tight adherence to Jung's own words.
Quite interesting. Jungian psychology is much better suited to my sensibilities than Freudian; I intend to read more about this system. Something that bothers me is how Jung says the first half of life, the period in which I am, is meant to be spent adapting to the outer world. Being vainglorious and stubborn, I do not wish to do this. But we'll see. Still digesting this one, but the writing is clear enough that, going slowly and taking notes and looking up unfamiliar words, a reasonably intelligent high school student can understand most of it.
This is a fair introduction to analytical psychology and C.G. Jung written by one of his close professional associates. Her natal 'jewishness', incidentally, was referred to by Harms in his postwar essay defending Jung from charges of anti-semitism and Nazism.
Jedno z lepszych opracowań teorii Carla Junga, szczególnie dla tych, którym ciężko jest przebrnąć przez oryginalne dzieła mistrza.
Kratky, strucny ale vystizny uvod do Jungovych teorii.
Great overview of Jungian psychology for those new and not so new. Lots of good references as well.
a shallow introduction, but possibly the most coherent one
It is not the most concise introduction to Jung's psychology, but it is surely a correct one.
Dobrze napisana, czytelnym i przejrzystym językiem. Książka Jolande Jacobi to kompendium myśli i osiągnięć Junga, zrozumiałych nawet dla psychologicznego laika.
