https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102855.Scarlet_Sister_Mary
New York Times~~~~While all these things may be true, I still cannot ignore the silent scream that was in my head the entire time I was reading Sister Mary.Julia Peterkin may have been correct in her representations, but she was also a White American; moreover, a WA who was married to a plantation owner and who enjoyed immense and (probably) undue privilege in her lifetime, having garnered it on the backs of those people she ultimately came to write about.
I am having the most difficult time in my life deciding whether she honours the memory of the Gullah people of South Carolina, or whether this is the most egregious example appropriation of voice ever written.
I can't believe I made it to 31 with a focus on American Literature in my education, and I was never required to read this excellent story of an independent, realistic Gullah woman.
Time on Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and The Sun Also Rises was wasted in comparison to the quality of simple but lyrical form and profound but individualistic revelation in this book.
Peterkin captures a language and culture of this regional people as though it is her own, because partly it was.
The chair of the jury resigned in protest.Scarlet Sister Mary is the story of Mary, “a young black woman on a coastal South Carolina plantation who is abandoned by her husband and ostracized by her church for her sinful ways.
W.E.B. Dubois wrote:“Peterkin is a southern white woman, but she has the eye and the ear to see beauty and know truth.”Apparently, several authorities (not really sure what this means) cite Peterkin’s work as paving the way for more realistic novels by African Americans including Zora Neale Hurston.
I have absolutely no earthly idea how this book could have even made the list of contenders, much less won a Pulitzer prize.The book itself is about the life of a poor, black woman named Mary living on a former plantation in South Carolina after the abolition of slavery.
Jedus axed Gawd to have mussy on em de same as you got to ax Gawd to have mussy on Cinder what done you wrong." And on and on and on, just like this.
If it weren't for my stubborn commitment to read all the Pulitzer winners, I wouldn't have wasted time on this book.
I wrote my senior thesis on this novel, which i LOVED. The seminar class was Southern Renaissance Lit-- betcha didn't even know the South had one, eh? Well Thomas Wolfe and William Faulkner will tell you otherwise.
Written by former plantation mistress Julia Peterkin, Scarlet Sister Mary is a novel of intellect, individualism, coltish word play, tradition and most importantly, respect.
The novel, like, Their Eyes Were Watching God and The Color Purple, is written in an old southern vernacular, and it tells the story of Sister Mary or Si May-e, a young and sprightly woman at the novel's start.
A suffocating cover of depression smothers Sister Mary, and as time heals old wounds, Mary rises into a life of self-satisfaction and sexual gratification.
It satisfied a lot of my current interests - southern literature, Pulitzer Prize winners, and books based around my home state of South Carolina.
However, I found Scarlet Sister Mary to be a rustic jewel!
The focus is the heart and salvation of the main character "Si-Maye" (Sister Mary).
I guess this could be considered a little Geechee like.
Whose?"I liked that the book was heavy in this authentic dialect as it reminded me of the authentic regional dialect used by some of the characters in Jane Eyre.
Pulitzer 1929 - Scarlet Sister Mary is about a former slave post civil war and her life as she goes from being a single woman looking for a husband to an independent woman.
I was surprised to find out that Julia Peterkin was a former white plantation owner herself.
Considering the book was written in 1929 it is surprising forward in its themes.
Something else that was surprising was that there isn't a single white character in the book.
I got really invested in Mary, her life, and the people around her.
Definitely the most interesting thing about this book is its place in U.S. literary history, with its scandalous (ahem) subject matter, controversial Pulitzer win, defiance of norms, and feminism, as Peterkin dared to write about a black woman.
Not to mention that the woman is in charge of her own life, sins, basically tells the judgy church deacons to buzz off, etc.
Unfortunately, the story and writing leave much to be desired.
I would not want to read this book again, but contemplating its place in the scheme of things is worthwhile.
I was extremely excited when I found this book.
I was drawn in by the avid descriptions of African-Americans on the plantation and the short chapters and dialect captured wonderfully by Peterkin, but after about 6 or 7 chapters this text became a dated black exploitation novel.
I did feel that Peterkin captured a time period and wrote about African-Americans post slavery very honestly.
I feel like she was writing about my relatives.
This book would be excellent for students studying the history of African Americans on the southern plantations who never left.
I feel that the main character was never really developed emotionally.
I didn't dislike this book but it was a bit of a chore to get through.
None of the characters particularly stood out to me and I wasn't really taken in by the narrative.
It was interesting from a historical perspective, but I would have liked to see more emotion coming from it, or being elicited from me.In summation : I can't say that I'm particularly thrilled to have read this, nor do I expect it to stay with me for long.
This is one of those books that a year from now I will be unable to recall much about.
This one was a little difficult for me to find. I had to special order it at the library and then they sent me the 1928 edition. Since it was hard to find, I assumed that it was going to be a heavy slow read. However, I was pleasantly surprised that it really wasn't. It was far less dry than some of the other early Pulitzer winners I've read. Some of the sentiments in the book are now obviously outdated, but I'd say for its time, it's a pretty decent book.
21/2 starsThis was a difficult book for me to find, and I lucked out at a used bookstore. That said, the book left me disappointed. Like other readers, I found the dialect a challenge to follow, and the story - while interesting - seemed to summarize in parts. There is a fifteen year leap in the action, for example, that nearly lost me.Not the best of the Pulitzers I've read. I'm interested now to read the book some on the committee wanted to win.
This book seems like a precursor to Zora Neale Hurston's works - it has the dialect of an isolated black community in South Carolina, and a very strong female character in Sister Mary - in all her strengths and weaknesses. I really cared about all the characters - plus the descriptions of the land and the seasons were beautiful.
Based on some of the GR reviews, I almost didn't read this book. But, it's on the Pulitizer list, so I decided to try it. I'm glad I did! The story was enjoyable and the characters were interesting.
If you can convince yourself that Ms. Peterkin isn’t just making fun of black people, and instead focus on the theme of female struggle against religious patriarchy and domestic abuse, it’s a surprisingly relevant and powerful story.... but that’s a hell of a big “if.”
My challenge is to read all the Pulitzer by the end of 2013.... Love this one... And would smoke a pipe if it was acceptable ...
Read my full review here: http://thepulitzerblog.wordpress.com/...
Most racist book I have ever read. That this won a Pulitzer is a real tribute to how far race relations in this country have come. Read this for historical perspective, and for no other reason.
The story itself was entertaining and easily read, but the characters weren't very complex and many came and went so it was hard to know any of them. 3.5 stars
Julia Peterkin's famous novel, "Scarlet Sister Mary" was a ground-breaking work for its time (late 1920's).
The setting is an abandoned cotton plantation and the cast of characters are entirely African Americans; white people are mentioned only twice in the novel (interestingly, in association with the dreaded boll weevil infestation).
Mary struggles to secure a place in the church community and in heaven, while living in accord with her own sensual desires.
The novel portrays the age-old tension between faith and practice, between "old ways" and the new.
A wonderful book although as many point out, it can be very difficult to find.
I'm always surprised with books from the 1920s, 1930s (and earlier) that cover such "racy" material.
It helps put some things into context.This is a great read; full of Gullah dialect that is surprisingly (and refreshingly) easy to read most of the time and that really places the story in a specific place and time.
But, while (again) the writing is great, the story is missing...something.
It won the Pulitzer Prize for the Novel in 1929.
The Gaffney Ledger newspaper, however, serially published the complete book."So, yay Gaffney Ledger!
Written by Julia Peterkin and published in 1929, "Scarlet Sister Mary" is a Pulitzer Prize winning novel based on the unique culture of former Gullah plantation slaves living out their lives in the post Civil War low country of the coastal Carolinas.
As told through the day to day life of a young woman named Sister Mary, the story recounts the amazing survival skills, language and religious customs that bond this isolated black community together and allow them to be completely self sufficient through the turbulent times of reconstruction and into the 20th century.
This one is about post-reconstruction south - from the perspective of a plantation community of African Americans.
The story focuses on Mary - or Si May ee as she is called by friends and family - a young, strong woman who is in an out of favor with the local church community because of her "sinning".
An interesting look at societal "norms" in that community - what appears to be a very fundamentalist group.
Although the dialect is a bit hard to read, the story line and character development are fascinating.
She never knew her real parents but thinks of Maum Hannah and Buddah Ben as the closest thing to parents that she has.She is pregnant and about to marry a man who is known to be wild.
Buddah feels that she would be better off marrying another person who is better suited to marriage.There is also realistic dialogue and good descriptions of settings that permit the reader to visualize what was taking place and imagining they are witnessing the action.I enjoyed the aspect of Faith in the story as Mary becomes wild herself and has many men friends but eventually turns back to her Faith.2 1/2 stars moving up to three.
This is my second Julia Peterkin book.
Scarlet Sister Mary is a continuation of the struggle post Civil war blacks endured on the farm.
I am astounded at the talent Mrs Peterkin displays painting such a vivid picture of the rural south.
The only criticism I have is the blaring absence of white landowners and the white community that contributed greatly to the plight of the rural black farmer.
I am not sure this book would be fully appreciated by those that never experienced the South with all of it's charm as well as it's generational sin.
Written by a white Southern author who found the lives of blacks more interesting than whites'.
Sixteen-year-old Mary is two months pregnant with July's child when they marry.
A year later, July disappears with another woman.
Mary goes on to have 8 more children with different men, doing what she pleases despite being kicked out of Heaven's Gate church and the disapproval of the community.
For its time, the book reveals the humanity of blacks but not without some condescension on the part of the author (again, reflecting the times).
Interesting history behind this book - Pulitzer Prize winner in 1929, and banned in Boston.
Worth reading because of its place in literary history.
Written by a white woman about the black experience in early 20th century low-country South Carolina.
Julia Peterkin certainly doesn't have the name recognition of other Southern writers such as Wolfe, or Faulkner, or Welty.
Yet this book is an obvious forerunner to "Their Eyes Were Watching God" and "The Color Purple." Peterkin treated her characters with respect and sympathy, even if in 2015 the writing seems antiquated.
This is a hard book to find, and I finally found a 1943 reprint on eBay.
This is the story of Mary, a former slave who still lives and works on the cotton plantation even after the slaves have been freed.
The father leaves, and when she comes out of her grief, she takes a fresh view on life with a little help from some black magic from the local witch doctor.
Eventually, shock and despair bring Mary to repentance and her soul is washed clean.
I liked the dialog in the story and the old south flavor.
It felt a little like Mama Day. This was a quick and easy read, but still powerful.
Interesting as an artifact of the time. This is a novel written by a white woman in the 1920's about a southern African-American farming community. Some aspects of the book (mostly, the dialect and general setting of the community) remind me of Zora Neale Hurston's Their Eyes Were Watching God. The main difference is that this is written by someone outside of the Af-Am community, and suffers from her imposition of quaintness and idealization on that community. Still, there is much good inside this book and I would definitely recommend it.
