https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73090.Lady_Be_Good
A British headmistress and a Texas golfer. It's a match made in heaven.Plus, Ted Beaudine makes an appearance. There are hot Texas men everywhere you turn.
Susan Elizabeth Philips creates story lines and characters that are humorous, unique, sexy and so much fun to read.Lady Be Good is the second book in the Wynette, Texas series.
Their meeting is arranged to help with a situation that Kenny is in, but with one little “misunderstanding” Emma and Kenny find themselves not quite knowing what to do with each other.Kenny ~ I loved him.
Lady Emma~ was so much fun to get to know.
Both Emma and Kenny have their own little plans that they need the other for but not everything is apparent to the other.
Reto #19 PopSugar 2018: Un libro acerca de o relacionado con un deporte Hace tiempo que no me divertía tanto con un libro, de verdad, donde otros sólo me han sacado una sonrisa, con esta lectura me sorprendí riéndome a carcajadas. Es que SEP crea unas situaciones comiquísimas con unos personajes impecablemente caracterizados.Por lo mismo, la sentí más una novela de personajes que de argumento, aunque por supuesto hay todo un conflicto asociado a la necesidad de Emma de destruir su imagen de per
Hace tiempo que no me divertía tanto con un libro, de verdad, donde otros sólo me han sacado una sonrisa, con esta lectura me sorprendí riéndome a carcajadas.
Además, si bien la personalidad de Emma era un soplo de aire fresco, con Kenny no empaticé nunca, fueron demasiadas páginas de un protagonista indolente como para que al final se redimiera conmigo.Como dato, este libro es el segundo de una serie, pero no es necesario leer el primero.
I originally read this a few years ago and gave it 5 stars. Just finished a re-read and it would not make the 5 star mark today. If Dallie and Fancy Pants hadn't show up, it might even be lower. I don't even know why I didn't love it as much this time around.I am kind of afraid to re-read the rest of the series for fear that I might find fault with them also. Still, she is a great author and she will be an "auto-buy" for me.
I just love Ms. Phillips' ability to write amazing humor and romance and she excels at both in this one.
If you're into adult romances filled with laughs, check out this author!!!My favorite quote:“Now, this is where I draw the line!
It's bad enough everybody in town's going to be thinkin' I'm sleeping with a depressed, lice-ridden, hemorrhoidal foreigner who likes to be tied up and might be pregnant, although-since she's just about cornered the market on condoms-I don't know how that could have happened.
But I will not-you listen to me, Emma!-I absolutely will not have anybody thinkin' a woman of mine needs a vaginal moisturizer, do you hear me?”
My first thought on Kenny: is this guy for real?? I thought nah it can’t be! And then this happened:[the woman is holding two kids in her arms] He mentally redressed her in a tight top, short skirt, and a pair of stiletto heels, then added black fishnet stockings for good measure. He’d never paid for sex in his life, but he decided he’d be more than happy to throw a little extra cash her way if she ever decided she needed to earn something on the side to pay for her kids’ orthodontics work. This
He’d never paid for sex in his life, but he decided he’d be more than happy to throw a little extra cash her way if she ever decided she needed to earn something on the side to pay for her kids’ orthodontics work.
I just can’t help myself.I’m going to pick even more on Kenny.
I think I’m getting to like this guy.Emma and Kenny have perf-*Latino tune playing in the background* Ugh I can’t say the words anymore without thinking of Latino teens.
I love Dex. Simply adore him!
At least for what I’ve read so far.
Upravo sam završila sa čitanjem, napolju zora sviće a ja se cerim ko idiot. Obožavam ovakve lagane, opuštajuće ljubavne priče sa malom dozom napetosti.
Lady Be Good is the second installment in the Wynette, Texas series.
The main characters once again depict a Texas golfer and a British lady.
Brought together by an “innocent” matchmaker (who also happens to be the heroine from the previous book, Miss Fancy Pants herself), Kenny Traveler and Lady Emma Wells-Finch couldn’t be more opposite of each other.
Those sparks, however, do not a solid relationship make, as they each struggle with issues that originate from their past.
However, while she is trying her best to convince the Duke that she will not make a satisfactory Duchess, she cannot take things too far or he will sell St. Gerts out from under her.Gorgeous Kenny Traveler - who needs to avoid scandal at all costs - is a world famous, pro-golfer who has been put on suspension by the acting PGA golf commissioner, Dallie a/k/a the "Antichrist", husband of Francesca (SEP's Fancy Pants).
Francesca promises to intervene with her husband and convince him to lift Kenny's suspension if all goes well.
But I will not —you listen to me, Emma!—I absolutely will not have anybody thinkin’ a woman of mine needs a vaginal moisturizer, do you hear me?"The good stuff:1.
It is thoroughly heart-warming and engaging and everything a great romance should be!
The tiny unexpected twists that can be found in every chapter are engaging and do a wonderful job of keeping up the suspense, even if an HEA ending is a given.
Their romance is still as sweet and true as it was in their own book, and it's amazing seeing how well they've developed into a married couple.
- Loved it! After the previous book in the series I was pleased to get more of what I associated as SEP.  - Loved Kenny, liked Emma. - Liked background stories. - Very funny which kept me chuckling with more than a few full out belly laughs.  - Looking forward to reading Ted's story. Can't believe that adorable little boy has turned into one sexy young man!
2.5 StarsSome books are nice, very comfortable. And a point comes where these books stop becoming your comfort zone and shifting to 'just ok' category, this is one of those.
Mentre Fancy Pants non mi aveva fatto impazzire, Impudente e Malizioso mi ha catturata all'istante, grazie soprattutto alla spiccata nota umoristica ed ai due protagonisti di questa storia ricca di fraintendimenti.Da una parte troviamo la britannica Lady Emma, l'autoritaria direttrice di una scuola inglese, arrivata in Texas con la scusa di fare alcune ricerche, ma il cui reale intento è quello di rovinarsi la reputazione per non dover sottostare al ricatto di un perfido duca inglese che vorrebbe costringerla a sposarlo.
The thing is, SEP does an excellent job making it reasonable so I didn't feel like I was being jerked around or that it was all convenient or an excuse for moving the plot where she wanted it to go and that let me fall in love with her and never look back.It's unfortunate that Kenny is such a dead loss.
Long story: I really liked the steam and the handling of Emma as a thirty year-old virgin looking to make a change.
To be honest I didn't begin the book with high expectations because when I tried to read Fancy Pants I kind of got bored with all the old tales and I haven't finished it yet but this book was a beautiful surprise just like all of the others I have read from Susan Elizabeth Phillips! I have to admit that I am a great fun although usually I only read books from this century and this goes a long way to show just how much I love them! What made this book irresistible :1) Kenny! I have read hundreds
To be honest I didn't begin the book with high expectations because when I tried to read Fancy Pants I kind of got bored with all the old tales and I haven't finished it yet but this book was a beautiful surprise just like all of the others I have read from Susan Elizabeth Phillips!
Lately sex scenes have lost their interest to me, you can only read so many before it becomes old and I usualy kind of skip them but in this book the first time the heroes slept together made about the most hilarious sex scene I have ever read!3) The humor!
Written when SEP was at the top of her game, I can only give it five stars.Lady Emma Wells-Finch, on a school break from her Head Mistress job at all girls St. Gertrudes, is taking the time to do some study on one of her favorite women in history.
There's no hackneyed plot driving Lady Be Good, just two people finally getting their HEA who blessedly deserve each other- in all the best sense.Read this book, romance fans (it's perfectly fine as a stand-alone), you'll thank me.
Written when SEP was at the top of her game, I can only give it five stars.Lady Emma Wells-Finch, on a school break from her Head Mistress job at all girls St. Gertrudes, is taking the time to do some study on one of her favorite women in history.
There's no hackneyed plot driving Lady Be Good, just two people finally getting their HEA who blessedly deserve each other- in all the best sense.Read this book, romance fans (it's perfectly fine as a stand-alone), you'll thank me.
4.5 StarsI think I love this series just as much as her Chicago Stars series. I feel like the Wynette, Texas series has a more serious tone to it, despite the pervasive humor. I've been listening to the audiobooks and the narration is spot on. Rarely do I feel like a narrator actually adds to my enjoyment, but this one does. Fantastic book, fantastic series.
The H & h drove me crazy all through this book. I wanted to smack both their heads together! It definitely kept me entertained. I look forward to reading the rest of the series :)
Recensione qui: http://www.leggereromanticamente.com/...
I'm rereading this series and want to read them all, because the earlier ones set up characters for some of the later books.
It seems like after the success of Fancy Pants, the author was encouraged/pushed to write another book that was pretty much the same: H is another gorgeous, tall, drawling Texan golf star, who still has a few issues to deal with from his childhood.
Sister also gets her HEA.So yeah, there were differences, but after rereading these two books back-to-back, the similarities annoyed me.
But this one didn't have as many layers and nuances as Fancy Pants, and for me it just wasn't as good.
Great Funny Read. But audiobook narrator was weak.The first time I read it I was doubled over with tears in my eyes hysterically laughing so many times! On subsequent reads I still laughed but not as much because I knew what was coming. But it was still great.This story is the romance between two oddly matched people: Lady Emma headmistress of a girls school in England and Kenny a professional golfer in Texas.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR: Anna Fields was very good with everything except Kenny’s voice (the
But audiobook narrator was weak.The first time I read it I was doubled over with tears in my eyes hysterically laughing so many times!
On subsequent reads I still laughed but not as much because I knew what was coming.
But it was still great.This story is the romance between two oddly matched people: Lady Emma headmistress of a girls school in England and Kenny a professional golfer in Texas.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:				Anna Fields was very good with everything except Kenny’s voice (the hero).
I wish she would have used a voice like she used for Dan Calebow and Cal Bonner (in books 1 and 3).DATA:Narrative mode: 3rd person.
Una novela de SEP que lo tiene todo: personajes adorables (incluso los secundarios te llegan al corazón), historia ligera y entretenida, muchos diálogos que me hicieron saltar una carcajada. Y lo más importante, hombres duros que no declaran su amor a los cuatro vientos. Hermoso Kenny, ven aquí niño bonito :P.
Много ми беше забавно през цялото време - страшен хумор. Кени не спираше да се бъзика с Ема и се заливах от смях. Хареса ми и паралелната история на Тори и Декс и как преоткриха любовта. Много по-изчистена от информация от първа част и затова ми хареса повече.
Това, което изнудвача й не знае, е че Ема заминава за Тексас с единствената мисия до такава степен да съсипе репутацията си, че да принуди надутият херцог сам да развали годежа им.
Имайки предвид обаче, че му е наредено да не се замесва в скандали, а единствената задача на Ема е именно търсенето на скандал, дали Кени ще успее да устои на изкушението?От доста време не бях чела книга на СЕФ и бях забравила колко забавно и колоритно пише тази авторка.
И като казах забавно, няма как да не пусна и цитат:— Това вече преля чашата!
Ama Chicago Stars serisinden alıştığımız komedi üzerine ask olaylarıni bu seriden çıkan ilk iki kitapta pek goremedik.
Işte bu müdürlük yaptigi okulun arazi sahibi hanım ölüyor ve mirasçısı olarak oglu geciyor başına.
cok cok komik sahneler vardi gül gül öldüm😂 Güncel zamanlarda geciyor ama kizimiz historical zamanlardan kalma 😂 semsiyesi bile var😂 Kenny'nin ailesi, onceki kitaptan karakterler falan derken bir gunde okudum bitti.
(Google Translate'ten🙈😂😂😂)Haa bu arada bu kitap Dallie ve Francesca nin kitabindan yaklasik bir 11-12 yil sonrasinda geciyor.Ted Baudine de 21 lik bir çıtır deluğanlu olarak arz i endam ediyor ve salyalarimizi akitiyor😍😂😂😂
I love how I just finished books with male leads named Dallie and Panda (yes, PANDA!), and yet Kenny was the one I had the hardest time wrapping my brain around.
There was great chemistry and dialogue between Emma and Nicky Kenny, and the requires-suspension-of-belief plotline actually worked in this zany story.
Something I love about Susan Elizabeth Phillips' books is that she creates these gorgeous manly men and then plops books in their hands (swoon!) or has them defend the gay guy without it threatening their masculinity (double swoon!
SEP (yes, I call her SEP now) writes great friendships between women, but I love that she also writes great male-female friendships.
Truly love these books!! What a great writer. I always get swept away to the great state of Texas every time I read one of them.
Reread. So good. I'd forgotten how much I love this book!Re-read 11/24/2015
Review to come...
