https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1284085.Anna_and_the_King_of_Siam
I had no idea this was based on a memoir. So I was quite excited to give it a shot. Then I became swallowed in the minutiae of description and filler. I think I made the right choice in audiobook with this one. I think a person interested in Siam or that area of Asia in the mid 1800s may find this book interesting; otherwise, it becomes rather flat with constant recitation of children's lessons. I'm glad I read it, but dare I say this...I think I'd rather see the movie.
She watched people tortured to death for crimes they didn't commit.With all of this Anna kept her goal in mind.
She knew that she didn't have the power to change the king.
She knew that she could not affect political change in Siam herself.
She did know that because she could teach the crown prince and the other royal children, she had the ability to influence the future of a nation.So often, if we can't affect change quickly, we stop trying.
Anna knew that she had to be persistent and keep her goal in mind.
I really had no idea what to expect when I read this, knowing what I know about both the musical and the more recent movie with Jodie Foster and Chow Yun-Fat and how musicals really compare to books (I've read the book and seen on Broadway Wicked, after all).It was really interesting to start with the preface by Margaret Landon and learn more about Anna Leonowens.
I felt like as "historical fiction", it was one of the most accurate books I've ever read.
As non-fiction, it read like a novel.
After school in England, and reuniting with her mother in India, who had remarried after the death of Anna's father, Anna bucked the controlling step-father and married another British military man whom her step-father felt was beneath her position.
Anna decided to open a school for military children out of necessity for income, but her success as an educator soon reached the ears of King Mongkut, king of Siam.
The longer she was there, the more she saw the injustices on many levels, and she felt it was her mission, or "calling" you might say, appointed by God to make a difference for the future of these people through the education of the royal young.
For the full review, please visit: http://marelithalkink.blogspot.co.za/...In the early 1860's, Anna Leonowens, a widow with two young children, was invited to Siam (modern day Thailand) by King Mongkut who wanted her to teach his children and wives the English language and introduce them to British customs.
One actual historical event portrayed in this novel, was King Mongkut's written offer of several pairs of elephants to President Buchanan of the United States.
Margaret Landon drew her research from Siamese court records and Anna Leonowens' own writing, the two memoirs, The English Governess at the Siamese Court (1870) and Romance of the Harem (1872).Anna and the King of Siam has enchanted millions over the years.
After having suffered through 352 pages of minutiae one might has well have read a history book on the same subject and at least come away with having learned something!Anna for all her "good intentions" comes off as so xenophobic that it is hard to believe she has as much influence as the novel would have one believe.
I am not expecting a "politically correct" novel but Anna's distrust of her Siamese hosts is extreme compared with similar books I've read from similar eras (both the 1940s and the 1860s).
Zhlédnuto ve verzi Anna a král Siamu, 1946Mám opravdu moc ráda filmovou verzi z roku 1999 s Jodie Foster, ani nevím, kolikrát jsem ji viděla.
Před několika dny mě kdovíproč napadlo, jestli existují i další ztvárnění, a zjistila jsem, že jich je hned několik včetně muzikálového filmu z roku 1956 se skvělým Yulem Brynnerem.
Rozhodla jsem se podívat na úplně první zpracování z roku 1946 a vůbec nelituji.
Je komornější než známý film s Foster, přitom působí syrověji a ne tak romanticky.
Moc ráda se na tento snímek někdy znovu podívám.
A fascinating read- I love Thailand and this was an interesting look into its past.
What did I learn from this- there are strong women all over the world who can and do make a difference.
As Margaret Landon wrote of some of the Thai women "they were not surpassed by the women of any nation in the world.
That was the crux of the matter!" That was the best part of this book- the stories of these women- their heroism, kindness, quiet ways of getting what they want or need for those around them.
We could all learn from them.
Anna and the King of Siam started out on a really high note. I loved the description that dripped with atmosphere, the characters were spunky and unique, and the best part was that it was based off a true story!But then it went on. And on. And on. And ON. The description never ended and the plot never started. Since it is based on a true story, I'm not sure there is a particular plot. It was a struggle to finish.
Anna Leonowens was a real woman and this really happened, and that statement alone seems crazy when you read the book.
This is a fabulous story about one woman who happened to be British when the English ruled the world.
Behind the familiar story of “The King and I” (which a lone is pretty fabulous!) is the story of Anna’s determination to make the most of the situation she found herself in.
It is true that the Brits bowed to no one but their queen and that attitude of “Noblese obligue” gave her backbone, but it was her own sense of how terribly wrong slavery was, that animates and ennobles much of the story.
Many of them, seeing that she was not afraid to oppose the King, imagined that she had more than human powers. So not only the poor, but the highly placed ladies of the harem came to her secretly with their grievances. Without intent, she found herself set up between the oppressor and the oppressed. Anna and the King of Siam , by Margaret Landon, was originally published in 1944 and told the story about Anna Leonowens and her time as an English governess and teacher to the royal Siamese children
Most recently, The King and I, the musical adaptation of Landon’s work, won a 2015 Tony Award for Best Musical Revival (you can see a montage of the play here).Landon characterized her work as around 70% fact and 30% fiction based upon fact, a lot of which she took from Anna’s own two memoirs: The English Governess at the Siamese Court (1870) and The Romance of the Harem (1873).
Though I will admit, that is not entirely the fault of the author, since the narrative was based upon a real person.I also did not like the characterization of the King of Siam.
There really was an Englishwoman who traveled with her son to Bangkok to serve as a school teacher for the many children (and some of their mothers) of the King of Siam in 1862 (he really did have a harem of concubines).
That was also the first time Marni Nixon sang for other actresses in film musicals (singing for Deborah Kerr in “The King and I”, Natalie Wood in “West Side Story”, and Audrey Hepburn in “My Fair Lady”).The copy I read is an old hardcover version (70 years old now!), and I guess it’s an original edition --- it’s certainly showing its age.
Most of what’s in the book does not appear in the musical (the king actually died in 1868 after Anna had already left Bangkok).
The author states that she worked from Anna's own memoirs; unfortunately more recent research proves that she re-invented herself significantly through these works; thus her girlhood in Wales, her first visit to Bombay aged 15, so well described in Ms Landon's work, are in fact totally fallacious - she was born in India of mixed-race parentage.This was quite an interesting read if a little two-dimensional.
Over it all rules King Mongkut, last of the old style kings, under whom slavery is a fact of life, and where those approaching him are expected to prostrate themselves.Anna is throughout a heroic character, able to stand up to her unpredictable and capricious King, as she intercedes for concubines who have fallen foul of him.
I don't know much about the facts, having read the preface, but for all the other information that may be true, it is truly a wonderful book.Anna loved her husband dearly and never remarried, but I believe just a tiny bit of the movie that she and the King developed a closer bond of friendship than most friends of today.
To remain devoted to someone like that, with his many violent outbursts of anger and not fear him totally, is very uncommon.Anna's influence on Prince Chulalongkorn just have made her proud of her decision to stay when times were the most difficult.
This fiction is an insult to our King and our nation , I'm quite surprise that somebody still refer it as a history fiction tho.
Racist everywhere.The King never have any romantic interest with Anna from what has been written in the historical archive , this is an image that Anna has try to proclaimed and painted.
Actually she is a big liar , even try to concealed the fact that she was born mixed with Indian blood.How can you believe a woman who tried to conceal even her true identity!!What really happen is the king himself even regard Anna as a difficult woman and more difficult than generalities.

Though it was fun to see how various aspects were adapted into THE KING AND I, the book is pretty dull and tedious otherwise.
In addition to supplying a more compelling linear structure, the musical improves upon the source by treating the titular king with more respect and offering Anna a chance to appreciate his strengths.
Still, credit must be given to Landon for recognizing something broadly appealing in Anna Lenowen's original memoirs (which are apparently bogged down with poorly written Siamese history) and adapting them into a more assessable (if still dry) "biographical novel".
(I do a more thorough comparison of novel vs.
musical vs.
If you love Rogers and Hammerstein's "The King and I," you will love Landon's "Anna and the King of Siam." She combined two books written by Anna Leonowens with original source material from the Library of Congress to create a beautifully written account of Anna Leonowens' time in Siam.As I read about the harem of the king and the brutal class distinction in Siam, I couldn't help but think that this book is a perfect portrait of what a society in bondage looks like.
Rather than believing in the Absolute God, Siam put their faith in an Absolute King.
As the reader, I felt myself sympathizing with Anna as she experienced the unjust culture that struggled to survive in Siam.
The play and movie "The King and I" were adapted from this book.
Many times she found herself at odds with the king and appalled by many of the ancient customs and cruelties.
In later years she was gratified to be told by King Chulalongkorn, the crown prince at the time of her employment, that he had followed many of her teachings and was bringing his country slowly but surely into the modern age with freedom of religion, the abolishment of slavery and the discontinuation of prostrating oneself, etc., etc., etc.
I had played the tiniest part in the movie Anna and the King, starring Jodie Foster & Chow Yuen Fatt as Anna and King Mongkut respectively.
Besides this, Anna's husbands tomb is also found in Penang, Mr. Thomas Leonowens plus I have always loved the older silver screen version of this story; The King and I, where Yul Brynner played the role of the King.This book was a joy to read and has peaked my interest in so many other subjects pertaining the history of Siam, Kedah and Malaysia in general.
Plus my interest in Anna's University in Nova Scotia, Halifax, Canada.Just pure joy.

Believe it or not, between sixth grade and 11th grade I don’t think I read one book that I didn’t have to for school.
Too cool to read and all that.
Then for some reason my local library for the blind sent me this book.
This book restarted my love of reading, and it has never stopped.
I’m a little surprised that this book fueled my love of reading.
Maybe it was just so out there with the descriptions of Siam, that I had to love it.
It didn’t hold up so well during the second reading, but it was still good.
I adore the long descriptions about the harem and the palace. As it comes from Anna Leonowens' journal, it gives an accurate idea of how it looked like in 1860.Now, it comes from Anna Leonowens' journal. I mean that we obviously see the life through the lenses of an European, who suffers from a massive superiority complex. I don't like her, and I hate how it reminds me of the never ending colonialism. There are too many examples throughout the book, so I'll skip this part, but be warned if you want to give a try.
I would like to thank NetGalley and the publishers for a copy of this book.
I am a passionate about Asia's history, but I had a really hard time reading Anna and the King of Siam.
I found the story of Anna interesting, but the book is written in some sort of small and brief stories, it feels that every chapter is a new one.
It was because of this that I feel it is lacking a plot and a climax, the suspense or the emotion that keeps me turning pages.
It took me almost two months to reach to Chapter 23, and I couldn't finish it.
Great read! I'd never read the original, and am currently looking for a copy of the movie just to see how it differs. I know that I've seen the movie, and my memory leads me to believe that it's not at all the same. It's statement about slavery and the ownership of people is something I didn't expect when I began the book.
I read this book as part of a book club. It's not something I would normally pick up on my own, but I really enjoyed it. The descriptions of life in Siam were vivid and interesting, and I was moved by how much Anna devoted herself to helping the women and slaves. I can't wait to see the film!
I first read this story many years, ago. I did a quick reread just before we went to see the musical. I still like it.
Listened to the audiobook but found it the story and historical background very uninteresting...
The story is familiar to those who have seen The King and I. This book filled in some details about Anna's life, but it read more like a report than a novel.
This is the novel, based on the non-fiction book. Which eventually became "The King and I". Each a little more removed from what actually happened.
