https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/417640.A_Bright_Shining_Lie
Sheehan uses the story as a vehicle to describe how the United States came to be what it was in Vietnam, especially how the military leadership had evolved from a lean and hungry, almost desperate group at the beginning of World War II, to the victors of that war, to the aristocratic mis-directions of MacArthur in Korea and then to the delusional, bureaucratic and careerist misdeeds in Vietnam.Sheehan also shows the greatness and shortcomings of the hero, John Paul Vann, a complex, fundamentally flawed man who is almost an intelligent, dark Forrest Gump; a sinister American Everyman of the middle of the twentieth century.
(Some VfP folks were adament that nothing is "natural" about modern warfare except that it's a pivotal part of our political economy and we have to socialize children into accepting it.) Here is a website of information VfP put together reacting to the series: http://www.vietnamfulldisclosure.org/Oh, and I thought the movie of Bright Shining Lie was horrible compared to the book - made into an adventure drama instead of a brilliant way to teach us all about the "lie" of Vietnam.
Nominally a biography of John Paul Vann--a soldier and civilian who was one of the first American Advisers in Vietnam at the beginning of American intervention and remained involved in the conflict until his death in 1972--this is actually the most complete history of the Vietnam War that I have ever read.
That Minh was originally hopeful that America would support him against the French because American Presidents were saying that it was time for Colonialism to end.
So there's that.And then there's John Paul Vann, who was a womanizer, a jerk, prone to bouts of irrational anger, and a man who always believed that America could win the war.
I read this book in 1988 while a member of the "Book of the Month Club," before it became a best-seller and Neil Sheehan won a Pulitzer for this remarkable book, 16-years in the making.And I've been talking about it ever since."A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam" is THE primer on contemporary US foreign policy and should be read by every student of American history.
Find out why by reading this book and taking account of American "hard power", just as John Paul Vann did.
These were all strategic blunders that exacerbated the real problem, which Eisenhower apparently saw clearly enough in 1954: "...that if a free election should then be held in North and South Vietnam, Ho Chih Minh would win 80 percent of the vote as the father of the country in the eyes of most Vietnamese." From the US perspective at the time, it was nearly impossible to imagine a homegrown national Communist movement independent of China and/or the USSR, Tito in Yugoslavia being an outlier that couldn't apply, or so the thinking went, to countries in southeast Asia.

It seems ironic to me that John Vann and Daniel Ellsberg were friends and close associates.This book is perhaps the one that covers the war from at the very beginning through its end although John Vann died in a helicopter crash in Vietnam shortly before the US withdrew from Saigon in the notable helicopter flights from the roof of the US Embassy.The corruption of the Saigon government as well as the corruption and incompetence of the South Vietnamese military is clearly and convincingly portrayed throughout the book.
The book is painful to read, not only because one knows how everything will end, both for the war, and for Vann himself, but also because one finds oneself immersed in a person for whom one feels empathy, yet simultaneously finds morally repugnant.The book is also difficult to navigate (for me, anyway) because of the extremely large number of names and personages, many of them in a language altogether foreign to me, that one is required to remember.
However, I feel a great sense of accomplishment having finished the book, and am eager to learn more about the circumstances of the war.
Sheehan's book is one of them, and it shows.An entirely engrossing narrative of the profound arrogance, paralyzing complaisance and careerism, and the incorrigible, altogether impenetrable ignorance of Americans in Vietnam.
So maybe this blinding hubris is part of the American character - at least until we spend ourselves into oblivion.It appears that we now have the opportunity to consider Vietnam II - of particular interest, I hope, to those too young to have seen the "prequal." The 60's were great fun - the very best of times.
The self-destruction of presidents is always amusing to watch, and the volumes of history that follow make great reading.
What Sheehan gives us the story of John Vann, a remarkably complex man who through sheer force of will and personality probably had more impact on the war than anyone outside Ho Chi Minh and the top brass in America.
How much the two faces of Vann - the heroic and the self-serving - represent the U.S. involvement in Vietnam is left up to the reader.While this was a fascinating insight into the war Sheehan experienced, and a compelling biography of a tragic person, I'd hesitate to give it full marks as a history of the war.
Full Review to follow.
If it is your first read no doubt, you will find the book a very good classic of American Military History and the involvement in Vietnam, many topics of which have become pivotal in addressing the topic since it was first published. However, for a new and a more contemporary read do have a pinch of salt handy for a much more deeper understanding of the message of the book. As tragic as it is we are all humans and can stomach somewhat of a reality.
The research that went into this one book must fill a small library with notes, clippings, photographs, references, biographies, maps and more.
Take for example the first day in the Army of the central character in the book - John Paul Vann.
My edition is 790 pages, not including Maps, Source Notes, Interviewees section, bibliography and Index.
Among the facts is the information that the war was partially caused by nepotism, corruption and cronyism based on the Catholic religion.
Nobody in the USA has been held to account for involving millions of US troops and at a cost of hundreds of thousands dead.
This was one of the first books I read about Vietnam, and that was years ago. I suspect that should I read it now I would give it more stars. It seems hard to believe that the Vietnam War, which played such an important in my young adulthood, has now been over for over 40 years. Also, "the domino effect" of losing the war never occurred. Unfortunately, we still have not learned all the lessons that war could teach us.
Sheehan's "...Vietnam" is certainly no disaster.
While I enjoy books with military engagements the endless stream of them, the personnel involved and the political intrigue around each of them in this one should have been significantly edited or removed altogether.The same goes for some of the sections of the story that detailed the corrupt and bureaucratic mess of the leadership of the South Vietnamese Army and government.
From his humble and troubled beginnings Sheehan tells his life story in incredible detail.Vann was one of the first military advisors sent to Vietnam before America committed combat forces and engaged in full scale war.
The title of the book was apply titled, the Vietnam War was, “A Bright and Shining Lie.” In many cases so was the life and career of John Paul Vann.
This is so much more than just another serious-minded political/diplomatic/military history about why America lost the Vietnam War. This book really reads like the great American novel, featuring a fascinatingly detailed character study of a tragic hero.
Vann comes alive as a man on a quest, but along the way there's an unforgettable cast of characters and unbearably vivid writing about the combat in Vietnam and the suffering of the civilian population.
I grew up with combat memoirs like A RUMOR OF WAR by Philip Caputo and the oral history BLOODS.
Perhaps the most comprehensive book I have read about the largest cluster-feck I am aware of - The Vietnam War. What resonates most with me, is that the general tenor of this book, comports with the memories that my oldest brother, who served two tours in Vietnam as an Officer (being Honorably Discharged as a Major), shared with me individually - before, during, and after that experience, paralleling his unique, distinct and personal recollections.This is an important book about a time and place that deserves to be understood, reevaluated and accurately restored.
This book is powerful, intelligent, poignant -- in listening to it I found myself more than once shaking within. The tragedy described in the brilliant narrative lives with us still.
But, overall, the book was way to detail-oriented and focused on military conflicts and strategy for my taste.
He saw the criminal behavior of both American and South Vietnamese soldiers towards Viet Cong and civilians and failed to recommend the simplest, most humane, solution - get the military out of the situation.However, as someone who was not alive during this war, the book provided me with a much better timeline of how the war started.
The author includes the pre-history of the war - the politics and conflicts in Vietnam of the 40's and 50's.
I read 790 pages about Vietnam.
This was my #readharder2016 book written in the decade I was born.This is incredibly well researched.
The amount of detail is staggering.However...I have some criticisms.
I didn't like the format of the book either--we go from Vann's funeral, to the history of Vietnam pre-Vietnam war, to American involvement in early stages of war, to Vann's childhood, then back to Vietnam through his death.
I was born after the war was over.
I have little context to pull from when reading a military history.This is an impressive work of journalism that sometimes falls under its own weight.
I've read this book twice and recommended it perhaps a hundred times more.
The epic drama of the Vietnam war, as expressed through the lens of John Paul Vann, profoundly resonates with me as a former infantry soldier of the post-Vietnam era.
One of the things I took away from reading this book is Vann's insight with respect to keeping the war personal.
He shrewdly observed and held that had we prosecuted the war purely from the abstract of a rifleman slogging it out toe-to-toe with his adversary the outcome would have been victory.
Such assertion seems counter-intuitive on its face.
Then such assertions possess a crystal clarity the finest diamonds cannot match.
Walking through a book store one day I spotted this book and purchased it on the fly.
Best that I can remember I purchased the book because: 1) It won a Pulitzer, 2) It won the National Book Award, 3) It was a National Bestseller; and 4) It's about the Vietnam War, a place and event I was told by the draft board that I could expect to visit (I didn't).
And, maybe that was one point the author intended to make: that John Paul Vann was just like so many others who found themselves split between two worlds so far apart geographically and culturally.
An articulate and heartbreaking analysis of America's war in Vietnam that is more relevant now than it has been for over a generation in light of the war in Iraq.
Sheehan uses the life and career of one American officer, Colonel John Vann, to show the evolution, corruption, and destruction of a nation's policy and strategy over time.
We seem to be making the same mistakes now, with results that are likely to be just as bad for Iraq as they were for Vietnam, and a lot worse for the West.
Much better reading for making policy decisions than "The Pet Goat."
The book begins with the idea that Vietnam sucked and there were lots of lies surrounding the war. We then get a blow-by-blow of those lies. And so on.OK, so I skipped ahead to page 800 just to make sure that Vietnam did, in fact, suck. But I couldn't slog through this jungle. No wonder it took Neil Sheehan til 1988 to finally publish the book.
It was bad enough to go through it to know who sent us there and why just makes it harder still!
Ostensibly a biography of John Paul Vann, it is many, many things.
For me, the experience of reading it was like reading a massive 19th century novel (and I want to be clear, it is not a novel--it is non-fiction, biography and history).
There are significant reversals; your understanding of the earlier sections deepens and evolves the further you go into it; there are overlapping family sagas; complicated psychologies; tons of unfamiliar names; tons of unfamiliar technical terms and acronyms; national histories--military, technological, cultural, political; brief glimpses into interesting personalities that exit the story too soon; digressions that seem random but aren't; difficult psycho-sexual dynamics.
It's a massive, immersive literary experience.
To be clear--it is all about the Vietnam war and, as such, is profoundly disturbing and depressing.
Opposing the American strategy and the entire Pentagon bureaucracy, he argued for direct American control over the Vietnamese government to root out corruption, win over the rural peasantry, and contain the use of firepower in favor of an Americanized version of People's War. In after action reports and strategic leaks, Vann sacrificed his career to the truth, earning the admiration of the press corps as the most honest American officer of the war.But this sacrifice was worthless, and a sop to his friends in the media.
Exceptional. Incredibly well written and insightful. Has to be the greatest book written on the Vietnam War.
Sheehan does a wonderful job of telling the entire life story of Vann, from birth to death, in a way that’s engaging from start to finish.
The story just seems to get more and more intense the longer it goes on, as Vann delves deeper and deeper into Vietnam on a political, tactical and personal level.
I would go as far as saying that no other man lived and breathed Vietnam as John Paul Vann did, as told by Sheehan.
However, as I already knew of Vann’s demise, I was still able to enjoy every other page of the book.
