https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/358880.The_Computer_and_the_Brain
Impressive little book which along with Turing's work, et al., founded the field of computer science as we know it. Of most interest if you are interested in the history and foundations of modern computer science, otherwise the concepts here will be so familiar that you will know many of them already.
A short series of lecture notes written by the great mathematician and physicist John von Neumann while on his deathbed.
Essentially, logical "organs" are orchestrated in sequential patterns to perform intensive arithmetic and memory-related procedures.
Here we find some of the first mentions of random access memory (RAM), short code (high-level programming), and other elements that are ubiquitous in modern computing.The second portion of the book presents a balanced assessment of the computational nature of neurological systems.
Much to my liking, von Neumann exhibits a healthy dose of skepticism while drawing comparisons between constructed and natural systems.
It's particularly interesting as a meter stick of progress between the 1950's and the current day: whereas the computer side of the question is in some ways quaintly outdated, von Neumann's outline of the human nervous system and the functioning of individual neurons remains near the limit of what we understand even today.
Not quite exactly at the limit, but certainly not as dreadfully short of it as 1950's computer science is to our current level of technological understanding.
I was especially piqued by his closing remarks that the mathematics of the nervous system may reflect different mathematics than the ones we currently understand.
He carefully analyze the computer-brain analogy in terms of memory, logic, arithmetic, capacity, precision and processing time etc.
(1) work of the brain relies on back and forth digital-analog conversions, which, I think, suggest current modeling efforts to look beyond complete digital simulations; (2) language of the brain is not the language of logic and mathematics as how we use it, otherwise nothing would work with its low arithmetic precision; (3) memory relies on the activities neurons and their genetics, but not sure where it's stored.
But as a random nerd, I find the analogs (not just by von Neumann) between computer memory and human memory the funniest of all time.
Owing to that, it is terse in a way, and that makes it a bit dry to read.That said, it goes over the state of the art in computing in the middle of the twentieth century, and tries to draw parallels between the computer logic processing and memory hardware of the time, with the then nascent understanding how neurons worked.
It was a good history lesson of computers, though not comprehensive by any measure.
Towards the end of the book, he seemed to be going in an interesting direction, comparing software programming with information that is coded and translated in the mesh of neural connections in the brain; their similarities and differences as then understood.
Would have been an interesting analysis had he gotten the chance to complete it.
The book is very well-written; however lack of illustrative figures makes it hard to digest the content unless you already know about it. This is the only reason that I rate it one star less. The book might represent state of the art knowledge at 1956 however our understanding of operations of the brain has significantly changed. This book serves as a good read for historical comparison of our understanding of the brain and its similarity to modern computing machines.
John von Neumann's ideas was so influential that now a days they sound intuitive and plain. Makes you remember once again that even the ideas you take for granted needed to be comprehended and relished by someone(-where)(-how)(-time-ago). No need to read this.
Too short to really bring anything new to the table (save some tantalizing references to analog computing I need chase down in more detail), but also too short to piss you off or demand more than a half hour. More like a pamphlet than a real book, I was worried I might put this in my pocket and send it through the wash.
Can't wait until I can understand this book.
It's short, but I found it quite dry.The third introduction was written by Klara von Neumann and is an excellent summary of how the unfinished book came to be.
I'm not sure if we even know where he was heading with this material - would he have proposed avenues for simulating human brains with computers?One thing that really stuck out immediately in the actual lecture material were the terms that von Neumann used to describe how computing architecture is organized: he refers to the different parts of a computer as "organs" such as the "memory organ", "input" and "output" organs.
The two did work together, but von Neuman was the senior and I propose had a better grasp of the juncture of math and machine.The Computer and the Brain is the last published work by von Neuman and was an attempt to bring together what was known about the machine qualities of the brain and what the machines of 1957 might one day be able to accomplish.As such almost everything is dated and new discoveries in neuroscience more so than in computers place limits on the absolute value of his comments.That said, there was a head line in recent science news that there is a prototype computer in testing that combines both digital and large scale parallel computing in the manner von Neuman suggests as the model for how the brain may work.The Computer and the Brain is the printed from of a lecture.
Unfortunately, manuscript remained unfinished and the lectures were not delivered, because von Neumann died while he was working on it.
In the days of ferro-magnetic core memories, cards and tapes, before Moore had a chance to observe his law, the terminology used to describe how computers work is a bit alien to the modern reader.
I worked on a minicomputer in the 1970's that required a 600 volt power supply to operate the ferrite core memories.And as primitive as neuroscience was in 1956, to his credit the author deduced that the brain was conducting massively parallel processing with billions of slow firing neurons, while computers were using much faster electronic switching to solve math problems a step at a time.The quality of the prose trails off a bit toward the end, because of the state of his declining health.
It's difficulty is of medium challenge, although the content of the book could be understood more easily if it was accompanied by some illustrations or technical representations of the composing parts of the book which contain explicit representations of how the computer works in a similar way to a brain, considering mainly their hardware/biological function.
The BrainThe computer part basically describes the classic Von Neumann architecture which is basically in the same form more or less: Input Device > Central Processing Unit (Control Unit/Logical Unit/Registers), Memory Unit > Output Device.
There is a somewhat archaic almost comical representation of the type of technology used in the control process which contained electrical plugged connections.
A very quick read primarily interesting as a tool for gaining perspective on how much the fields of computer science, neurobiology, and machine learning have changed. The basics of computer science covered are still accurate and relevant to some extent ,even if the scales of size and speed have progressed by orders of magnitude. In contrast, it's almost shocking how outdated and primitive the neurobiology and machine learning discussions are. There is an unstated premise throughout much of the book that neurobiological structures/processes are universally analogous to digital computing principles that most would now view as quaint and hopelessly reductive.
L'unica grande pecca di questo libro è che l'autore non abbia potuto terminarlo.Nonostante sia stato pubblicato decine di anni fa molte considerazioni relative alle neuroscienze sono corrette. Inoltre questo libro è stato, di fatto, la base da cui è nata l'architettura dei moderni computer.
Unfinished extremely outdated lecture manuscripts, including it's lengthy forwards
This book captures wholesomely the great intellect that was John von Neumann. Truly a visionary, he predicted things that would come to be in years and decades after him. Full appreciation of this book requires some knowledge of computing and artificial intelligence.
The thoughts of Klara von Neumann, the wife of John Neumann provides a brief sketch of events that lead to the presentation at the Silliman Foundation lectures at Yale University.
The author looks at the complexity on neurons and its functions; the nature of the nerve impulses, the process of its stimulation, digital character, the problem of memory within the nervous system.
The recent advances in automation and robotics illustrate the early contribution of von Neumann in this field.
In a recent study, Christopher Macleod and his colleagues in Aberdeen, UK, have created a robot that evolves like a living species in biological evolution.
Since it's written in the 50's I'm not entirely sure how much is still applicable to the brain and computers today in terms of scientific and practical structure.
The Von Neumann Computer Architecture is touched upon in the foreword, and is what is described in the first part of the book.
Still, I hope (and am sure) we know more about both computers and the brain than was known in the time of Von Neumann.
Less so is his comparison of memory.If nothing else, just read the foreword by Ray Kurzweil.
While Alan Turing established a mathematical model of computation - the now called Turing Machine, von Neumann took influence in such model to design the computer architecture that is still used nowadays - the von Neumann Machine (a.k.a. von Neumann Architecture).
In my opinion, von Neumann took the same approach in these lectures.
This is a book about the brain written by an engineer.
Von Neumann divides his lectures into two parts, in the former he presents the field of analog and digital computing machines, and in the later he analyses the brain as a natural automaton, i.e. a natural computing machine.
In these lectures, von Neumann set out to explore connections between computing hardware and their biological counterparts; brains.
Von Neumann compared neurons with physical computing elements in terms of size, speed, heat dissipation, capacity, etc., in an attempt to discover what, if anything, could be said to unite them or to set them apart.
For example, von Neumann notes that neurons are essentially digital in that they have an all-or-nothing activation energy.
Io non sono così d'accordo con i peana delle prefazioni alla seconda e terza edizione del libro sulla visione del funzionamento del cervello: al più si può affermare che se le cose stanno davvero così allora negli ultimi 60 anni non si è in realtà fatto nulla di nuovo.
Inoltre, anche se nel testo le differenze tra computer e mente non sono molto enfatizzate, leggere il testo con le conoscenze odierne - e soprattutto ricordarsi che la capacità di memoria del primo è enormemente aumentata - aiuta a capire che in realtà non sappiamo affatto come funzioni davvero il nostro cervello :)
In this unfinished short collection of lectures on the brain and the computer, von Neumann hints at some deep connections between artificial and neurological machines (brains!).
It's unfortunate that he wasn't able to finish these lectures, because some of the most salient material really comes to light in the final pages, where he begins to draw parallels between Universal Turing Machines (then yet unnamed as such) and our understanding of logic and mathematics as it relates to the 'computation' performed by our brains.
Another interesting example of Johnny's foresight arises when he mentions the intrinsic inability to parallelize some algorithms.
(i.e. To me; instinct, prejudice, habit etc.)* Trade-off arithmetic for the logic.
(i.e pattern recognition)* Memory's like a flip-flop (recent chemical structure) and most traveled trails on the grass (tolerance to threshold via changes in the nature of neuron).
* Hierarchy in artificial memory makes it fast and to be seemed as infinite from the point of arithmetic computation unit.
(i.e filtering in sense organs and pattern recognition again)* Brain can be seen an example of Turing machine so it can imitate anything.
(i.e catch all case ;))* To my knowledge, there is not even one example of optimum in extremes where brain is no exception.
Boils down how computers and the brain work by describing how to do math in analog and digital ways, describes the essential concepts for decimal machine math and how that leads to binary machine math as a more efficient way of representing numbers in a logic machine.
Talks about statistics and logic being the main fundamental aspects of math involved in computers and brains.
Explains why memory area is essential for computing machines and requirements for memory, in principle.
Here we have the very computer architect comparing the 50's machines to the human nervous system.
He starts describing the 'current' (1956) digital/analog computers.
If you are not into machines, the first chapters will bore you down (but hold on and wait for it).
Else, you are going to enjoy this pre integrated circuit/microchip description.
Then, he goes about making ingenious comparisons between the natural and artificial machineries.
You may have lots of fun updating his figures to recent computers.
Hey, note that the human nervous system is pretty much the same (sic), but the computers evolved a bit last ~60 years.
Brilliant and succinct. Von Neumann's description of computers and their analogies to the brain seem obvious, until you realize that no one had thought about it like this before he did. He helped design the modern architecture of computers, and thought about what we could learn from thinking about neuroscience in tandem with computer science. A very short read as well.
Dry as the desert, but, when viewed in its historical context, an important work concerning ideas about the computational similarities and differences between natural and artificial computing devices. Recommended for engineering enthusiasts with too much spare time on their hands.
I'll admit it, this was not quite what I expected. It is a very serious and solid analysis of the analogies between computing machinery of the 1950s and the brain. Very solid, but also very slow. I guess I just had to be at the actual lectures...
This a great history lesson and a wonderful introduction to the (first?) bridge between neuroscience and computer science. Von Neumann was bloody smart. This book would have been 5 stars if I had read it 50 years ago.
