https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28449207-strange-the-dreamer
Have you ever loved a book so much that it completely fills your soul, warms your heart, and heals your broken pieces? Because that's Strange the Dreamer.  “On the second Sabbat of Twelfthmoon, in the city of Weep, a girl fell from the sky. Her skin was blue, her blood was red.”  This is that rare type of book that, while reading, is a constant reminder of why you fell in love with reading in the first place. This book is perfection. This book is a tangible piece of joy. The feeling while readin
Have you ever loved a book so much that it completely fills your soul, warms your heart, and heals your broken pieces?
I truly believe the best way to go into this book is blind, I wouldn't even read the synopsis, but the basic premise of this story is that we are introduced to an orphan, who has always been ostracized for being different, and he is constantly dreaming of the Unseen City that everyone else has long forgotten.
This is the best thing I've read in years, and I will never forget this story, these characters, or its message.
It was impossible, of course.But when did that ever stop any dreamer from dreaming? Oh hell, it was gorgeous perfection.I've been away for a while because I'm on vacation, but I just had to step back in and review this completely strange, utterly beautiful book. I've been waiting so long for Laini Taylor to steal my heart once more, and Strange the Dreamer does not disappoint.It's so tempting when reviewing Taylor's books to talk about the writing style and language. Because it's stunning. I do
I've been waiting so long for Laini Taylor to steal my heart once more, and Strange the Dreamer does not disappoint.It's so tempting when reviewing Taylor's books to talk about the writing style and language.
Obsessed with discovering what happened, he spends his adolescence researching the city, trying desperately to find anything about it, longing to one day visit the city himself.And, of course, like all bold dreamers of fantasy, he will get a chance to go on a magical journey and maybe, just maybe, make his dreams come true.
Blown. Away.That was incredible.
I'm going to Weep, he thought, and could have laughed at the pun, but he kept his composure, and when the Tizerkane warriors rode out of the Great Library and out of Zosma, Strange the dreamer went with them.
I will say there are a good bit of characters in the book, nothing confusing, but my favorites are Lazlo and Sarai.
I didn't understand every little bit about the book but that's okay because I still loved it.
and there is so much more going on in the book but like I said, you need to read it and feel the magic.
I got to this point reading it and was just like "I never want this book to end thanks."OKAY BUT CAN WE TALK ABOUT LAZLO STRANGE FOR A MINUTE?!?
I love how his nose got broken by a fairy tale book and that he'll walk into a wall because he's reading so much and how his whole life is about fantastical lost cities and how he dreams the most beautiful and gorgeous dreams the world has ever known.
<3 But honestly I want to read more books with sweet boys and nightmare girls.
I love the DoSaB trilogy, which made me nervous to read STRANGE, because how could anything top DoSaB?
Probably because she is really, really talented but also I think she might make blood sacrifices to the muses.
STRANGE THE DREAMER is a beautiful, unusual, unexpected story which so many great characters that it's very hard for me to pick a favorite.
The incredible prose made me want to savor every page, but the story hooked me from sentence 1, which made me want to burn through it.
In the end, I settled for feverish reading with periods of weeping/prose adoration.
I think this was a good system.
*Reread Apr 2017This time I actually finished it, I listened to the audiobook, and it was better but still lots of unnecessary filler that prevented me from really getting into the story.
Really sad I didn't enjoy it more but oh well, I gave it a fair shot!*DNF Jan 2017I never, like literally never, DNF books but this is one that I just couldn't do.
I was so incredibly confused the whole time I read it.
It was so all over the place I couldn't even bring myself to read any further.
Rating is obviously based on what I read.*Thank you to Indigo for sending me this ARC!
boy do I feel like someone resurrected me from the dead badlyI wonder if anyone with bulky muscular arms is willing to hug me right now, I want to be compressed back to death because I’ve decided to abandon humanity to become an orb of energy and light instead and just live photogenically until The Muse of Nightmares is out. “Beautiful and full of monsters?”“All the best stories are.” How much money do you think I should invest in the search for immortality for Laini Taylor to keep her as a stor
And you really have no idea how I wish I could tattoo that feeling and carry it around with me forever.So. What is Strange the Dreamer about?It’s a story of a city that lost its name and was lost to the world, of blue-skinned goddesses who appear in the dreams of men and moths who infiltrate their unconsciousness.Of ghosts bound to a child’s will and orphans who inherited tales of hate, of dragonfly wings purchased in dreams and noses literally broken by fairy tales, of heroes with untold stories or rather stories stolen by imposter heroes.Of dreamsmiths who “turn their nightmares into fireflies and catch them in a jar”, of godslayers and great men who are also good men (and the repercussions of being both) And of beginning that are very literally endings and of a character who “couldn’t have belonged at the library more truly if he were a book himself”.It's a story I wish I could purchase another heart entirely just to love it with.
My struggle was this: Half the time, I was sitting there in awe, thinking 'This is the best book EVER WRITTEN' ahhh.
Such an interesting combination I feel like I've learned a ton and I owe Laini a great deal for that.Lazlo Strange is easily one of the most tender and relatable characters in YA lit.
He was precious down to the bone, and I swear I don't think anyone could read about him and not fall in love.
I would have loved this book so much more -perhaps even cried over it- if the pacing had been better.
4.5 stars!! Wow this book truly blew me away!!!I avoided reading Strange The Dreamer for a looooongggg time. I have a record of epic high fantasy with lyrical prose not sitting well with me and combined with my inability to grasp the synopsis before reading, I was greatly intimidated by this book. How glad I am that I finally gave it a chance and took my time with it because I can't imagine having not experienced this story!
“Beautiful and full of monsters?"“All the best stories are.”  Love that feeling when you start a series and immediately realize there's no going back to normal.Actual footage of me entering this fandom:There were  SO  many elements of this story that really worked for me  (MINUS THE SO-CALLED LOVE!!!) Lazlo Strange, an orphaned child, was always fascinated by tales of the missing city - he would make-believe all sorts of adventures. One day, while playing alone in the monastery orchard, somethi
He spends every waking moment obsessed with finding out what happened - when suddenly, years later, someone from that very city visits...Lazlo sacrifices everything to follow that man back to the city of Weep - it's not every day that your dreams come true.
I loved the wild and whimsical world Liani Taylor created - the odd magic, the alien-ness of the Godspawn, the simple joys of Lazlo the librarian-turned-adventurer.The only thing that threw me out of this novel was the love - it was absolutely terrible.If the rest of the book wasn't so good, I would've one-starred this one based on the awful love story.Most of the book centers around backstory of both Lazlo and Sarai and how they came to be in the same city.
“You’re a storyteller. Dream up something wild and improbable," she pleaded. "Something beautiful and full of monsters."“Beautiful and full of monsters?"“All the best stories are.”This quote is basically a short summary of the entire book because “Strange the Dreamer” is indeed a story about something beautiful and full of monsters. Well, actually some might even say it’s a story about  “beautiful monsters"  and you certainly would be more than just right to put it that way. ;-)Those beautiful m
;-)Those beautiful monsters appear in all different kinds of shapes and forms and no matter how hard I would try, I’m convinced I still wouldn’t be able to express how much I loved to read this book.
She wanted to stop the destructive cycle of hate, mistrust, prejudices and fear and I’m sure if the ending wouldn’t have happened Lazlo and her might have even had a realistic chance to succeed.
Minya is so wrathful and embittered that she sees nothing but hatred and vengeance and even though I know that she’s pulling the strings right now, I still hope that Lazlo and Sarai won’t end up being her puppets.
because she ended it with a friggin’ surgical strike to the feels.just when you thought you were safe - when the thing you knew was gonna happen happened and you’re comforting yourself by googling silver linings and lemonade recipes for all these sour sour lemons, that’s when laini taylor swoops in and rips your heart out for real, and she’s all, “sucks to your lemonade, son!”it’s like that line from Night Film:Just when you think you've hit rock bottom, you realize you're on another trapdoor.i am so ready for the second part of this.******************************************the aftermath of a war between gods and men.a mysterious city stripped of its name.a mythic hero with blood on his hands.a young librarian with a singular dream.a girl every bit as dangerous as she is in danger.alchemy and blood candy, nightmares and godspawn, moths and monsters, friendship and treachery, love and carnage.on the one hand, that kind of sounds like drunk mad libs.
Then Laini Taylor comes along and drops this bomb of a magic on us and my feelings were cemented by a ten-fold.Lazlo Strange is a bookworm.
He lived and breathed books and learning about the city and wonders of Weep.The way his character was fleshed out was simply stunning.
But this book was based on a dreamer and his dream.
———————————————-READING RAMBLES.Okay, I'm feeling guilty for having to put this book down for the 2nd time now.
-----------------------------------------------------I'm putting this book down for now, because I'm feeling disgustingly slumpish and Laini Taylor's stories do not deserve this sloppy attention I am giving it right now.
2nd read: Oct 2018I reread this via the audiobook and the audiobook is AMAZING!1st read: Aug-Sep 2018this is my favourite book of all time and my heart is bursting with love for this book.
I liked the first half of the book. The world building was interesting, the magical powers of the children of the dead gods were interesting.... but then the second half was mostly a love story. A YA insta-love story... It ended up reducing my rating.Overall I think this book is overhyped.
It felt strange and wonderful to be a part of something so unique as it truly contained a dreamlike, wispy quality, whereas most fantasy I've read does not contain this aesthetic.
If you have, then I'm sure we are all in agreement that (view spoiler)[ Sarai dying, while expected, was entirely emotional and heart wrenching, and also that Minya is a fabulous little nugget of a villain and those final chilling words have me begging for Laini to write as fast as she can because I NEED The Muse of Nightmares!!!
I mean, if you are a Laini Taylor fan and like her elaborate prose and rich worldbuilding and, let's be frank, romances with a whiff of instalove, I don't see how this book can disappoint you.
It surely didn't disappoint me.The story starts with a hungry orphan dreaming of a magic city beyond a vast desert where all kinds of wonders live.
Well, I'll stop here because the biggest pleasure in reading Taylor's books is unspooling a wondrous yarn of her storytelling.But rest assured, there are gods and wars with both sides guilty of unspeakable, "inter-species" love, guilt and envy, shame and regret, and impossible choices - all themes not unfamiliar to fans of Daughter of Smoke and Bone.
I don't know if it's the unbelievably stupid fucking actions of Lazlo in the last fifteen pages, or the fact that I could not force myself to give a single solitary shit about Sarai, or the fact that this book scraaaaaaped to its conclusion at a grandfatherly pace, but I turn the last page in a fit of rage: why, Laini Taylor?
But still it enraged me, that not a second thought was given to the ramifications of Lazlo asking Minya, the girl who built an army of ghosts who are imprisoned against their will, to bring Sarai back.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Lazlo Strange, abandoned orphan and bibliophile librarian, has nurtured an interest in fairy tales and legends since he was a boy. His secret passion is studying the language and lore of the lost city of Weep. Lazlo believes he'll never be brave enough to search for the forgotten city, but when a heroic figure known as the Godslayer arrives at his village in search of aid, the opportunity to cross the world
There's a considerable amount of foundational exposition and world building, as this is the first book in a new series, but the author finds a delicate balance between introducing readers to a new world with never-before-seen mythical creatures and delivering a complete story with a cast of intriguing characters.
This book is a mixed bag of everything readers want from an epic fantasy: magic and whimsy; a fresh take on supernatural abilities; a compelling mystery; an undeniable sense of exploration and adventure; a new realm of fantastical proportions, and a satisfying ending that sets the stage for more to come.
A dazzling start to an exhilarating new series, Strange the Dreamer offers beauty and wonder, magic and mysticism, monsters and gods.
MAGIC. It does exist.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Second read: Sept’ ‘18
What a spectacular world Laini Taylor has crafted in this book!
He grows up to become a librarian, submersing himself in the stories that he loves so much.More than anything else, he is captivated by tales of the "unseen city".
Unlike everyone else in his town, Lazlo remembers the feeling of having his memory of the name of the city pulled away from him.
Lazlo is forced to look at the city and it's inhabitants through a new lens.Although Lazlo was the central focus for much of this story, Ms. Taylor provides a robust cast of characters.
Laini Taylor has created a fantastical and intriguing world.
However, I still chose to give this book a 5 stars because overall I don't feel those issues weigh enough to affect my rating.This is one of the richest worlds we have seen from Taylor yet.We focus mostly on the city of Weep, but the story is crafted in such a way that it suggests magnitude beyond that focus.
And so just like with the Daughter of Smoke and Bone series, I found it easy to excuse any insta-love hints I may have seen.Also, the pacing for the first 70% of the book was rather slow but if you know anything about me, I'm almost never bothered by a slow pace.I actually prefer it because I feel it gives the author a chance to properly introduce and provide adequate details for the story they're writing.
Can we all just agree that Laini Taylor is a goddess?Not the kind of goddess who brings despair to your spirit, but the kind who appeases it with angelic words.
How dare Laini Taylor do this to us?
It’s tremendously original, well-written, magical and romantic.There is everything you could possibly want from a fantasy tale: a carefully-constructed world-building with its own history and culture, developed characters—villains, heroes, and those in-between—, lush descriptions that speak of Laini Taylor’s way with words and passionate mind, as well as a forbidden love story that will be the focus of your dreams tonight.
So strange and terrible and lovely ❝Dream up something wild and improbable. Something beautiful and full of monsters.❞ I finally get it. I get the shrines built for Laini Taylor, the adoration of her faithful fans, because after diving into her whimsical and peculiar stories of boys and girls consumed by hunger, swallowing fairy tales and miracles and plums, dreaming big and loving tenderly and passionately, not worshipping her is not an option. It’s a reflective response. I can’t tell you the e
I get the shrines built for Laini Taylor, the adoration of her faithful fans, because after diving into her whimsical and peculiar stories of boys and girls consumed by hunger, swallowing fairy tales and miracles and plums, dreaming big and loving tenderly and passionately, not worshipping her is not an option.
Strange the Dreamer is the story of a librarian who was fortunate enough to accomplish his heart’s greatest desire; to see the mythic lost city of Weep, and to gather evidence of magic.
As a boy at the abbey, stories had been Lazlo's only wealth. He was richer now.Now he had books. Those of you who’ve been following my reviews and rant-views for a while, already know that my first experience with Laini Taylor and her Daughter of.. was a complete failure.I kind of enjoyed the writing, even if I found it a little pompous and confusing, and the plot was not bad either, but my main problems were the characters and their interactions. I couldn’t be happier to admit that Strange the
I think the problem with Laini Taylor and urban/modern settings, is that her imagination is so wild and big that, when it has to be contained or confined into a space and a story that follow determined rules, it loses half of its perfection.So, yeah, the fact that Strange the Dreamer takes place in a world that the author’s created from the ground up, does nothing but add positive points to the final outcome.Again, what I enjoyed the most was the writing.
I adore Strange the Dreamer, it's the perfect story for those who aren't afraid to dream.
this book is like porn, but for my hearti think i've tried to review strange the dreamer like 19 times now and i still don't have the words to describe the magic that is this book.
because, really, how do you put 'magic' into words???
i will let you know the day i find out, and then i will make the whole world read this book, because that's what i was sent to earth for.in the meanwhile, i'll let you know that this reads basically as a magical bedtime story, and it makes me feel safe and warm and i want to tattoo the whole thing on my forehead.
But when did that ever stop any dreamer from dreaming?
review to come.
All the stars. Never wanted this book to end.
5 Stars “You’re a storyteller. Dream up something wild and improbable," she pleaded. "Something beautiful and full of monsters."“Beautiful and full of monsters?"“All the best stories are.”  Overview: Second Read Upping my rating to a full 5-Stars, because even though this book wasn't perfect it still made me ugly cry--sitting in my car right before the end of my lunch break. This is a beautifully written story with a unique and engrossing world. Do yourself a favor and go in with as little info
Overview: Second Read Upping my rating to a full 5-Stars, because even though this book wasn't perfect it still made me ugly cry--sitting in my car right before the end of my lunch break.
This slowly-builds, spending time developing the characters and the world.
(and I would argue antihero?) The way he genuinely assumes ulterior motives for everyone’s actions broke my heart.My only real problem with this book: the romance happens very fast.
I like the characters, and I think they are adorable together.
The plot is amazingly creative and I love almost every character.
The only way I feel I can properly sum it up is this: reading this book feels like magic.There is so much cool shit in this book, allow me to list just a few things:candy made out of blooda boy who steals rainimaginary cities where people leave free cakes on windowsa goddess who screams nightmaresa nerdy librarian MCSpeaking of said nerdy librarian MC….allow me to introduce you to the new love of your life, Lazlo Strange.
Thoughts and feelings are free to wander, like characters leaving their book to taste life in other stories.
