https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3217321-the-specialist
A written record of an oral story by a Vaudeville performer, this first-person narrative is just asking to be read aloud.
It’s not the kind of book I typically read, but I am certainly glad I stumbled upon it.
The author/performer was telling the story almost as a tribute to a real person, someone whose sincerity and likability were memorable, and the kind nature of the story shines through.
It would be easy for a tale like this to make fun of the main character, but that line is never crossed.
Instead, this charming tale of an outhouse specialist projects a kindhearted and almost wholesome tone.
"You can hear the dog barkin' in the distance, bringin' the cows up fer milkin', and the slow squeak of Elmer's windmill pumpin' away day after day the same as me."
I'll be honest, this book is never going to be your all time favourite book, but it is well worth a read.It's funny, in a gentle kind of way, and it's a window into a whole different time, a whole different world.I also need to say, I read this because Terry Pratchett said so - there can be no better rating system for a book.Enjoy of, put it on a shelf, and come back to it in a year and enjoy it all over again.
I first read this wonderful book in the mid-1960s and have re-read it on countless occasions in the intervening years.
A recent review of it on the Nudge website reminded me that it was time to re-read it yet again, and I wasn’t disappointed!
Over the past five decades I have enjoyed buying copies for friends, all of whom have found it equally delightful, not only for the amusing narrative but also for William Kermodes’s wonderful illustrations.
The Times Literary Supplement described it as "....
This quirky little book is one that should be read aloud, maybe even on a stage.
Laced with humor and written tongue-in-cheek, this homespun tale should be savored slowly.
In a time long past, this specialist would have been highly sought after.
But nowadays, there is not much call for a man who specializes in building outhouses!
Still, it is a skill that should not be laughed at or taken lightly.
Perhaps some of the expertise of this specialist could be applied to other ventures.
Regardless, it is a shallow person indeed will will not learn something from reading this tale.
" You've heard lots of pratin' and prattlin' about this bein' the age of specialisation. I am a carpenter by trade. At one time I could of built a house, barn, church or chicken coop. But if seen the need of a specialist in my line, so I studied her. I got her; she's mine. Gentlemen, you are face to face with the champion privy builder of Sangamon County ... "Fab little 20 min read recommended to me .. Very funny ..
A peculiar little book - evidently they had 'Christmas stocking' books in 1930 when this first came out and was a hit. Wry wise humour, enhanced by the illustrations. Should I ever need to commission an outdoor privy this will be my go-to text.
Recommended to anyone interested in product or service design ...
Ostensibly a humor book but interesting stuff on craftsmanship. Only 3 stars because I expected it to be longer.
Quirky and cute. Love the ending.
I read this as Terry Pratchett raved about it. It is a very good monologue about a man who is a specialist in building privy's. And that's about it, the humour is nice and subtile, it's a very good short piece. It started off as a Vaudeville act and it really has that feeling, I assume it hasn't aged too well. I can sort of see how it influenced Pratchett's humour, in the very dry almost snideness of the humour.Will take less than an hour to get through, so if you come across it definitely give it a shot.
My Dad recommended this little book, as an old friend had sent it to him well before I was born. It is now available on kindle for the princely sum of £1.25.It's funny, even though it was written in the 1930s when life in rural North America were a little different - but at the end of the day if it's funny, it's funny.Worth a read.
It's old-school, but it's funny! The language really gives you a sense of the setting and the good humour of the author. I'd never considered the specialisation of privy construction, but now I'll view them in a new light - and probably have a chuckle to myself at the same time.
Given to my father 60 years ago by one of his minister friends, I read it today while going through my mother's things. Understated hilarity about masterful building of outhouses, yet there's also a sincere message about pursuing excellence in whatever you do.
Jeg har lest den norske oversettelsen av boka, gjort av Alf Prøysen og illustrert av Kjell Aukrust. På dialekt og med spreke illustrasjoner var dette morsom lesning som fint parodierer spesialiseringa på alle bauger og kanter.
A little book on the smallest room, but funny, funny, funny!
This book shows that there's a lot of thinking that goes into designing a privy.A very quick read, but well worth the time.
While originally a comedy sketch, the humor is still strong, and he makes some excellent points. As a side benefit you will learn the high art of privy building
Who knew there were so many things to consider when building an outhouse! Fascinatingly funny!
Odd little book, quirky rather than funny, but a must read for any would be festival organisers I guess. Takes about 5 mins to read.
My granny made me read it...
A million seller in its day. Fun, and a little bit to do with my profession in a way. Humour surprisingly undated, and has a few truths about any specialism...
