https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40385.The_Master_Mind_of_Mars
Probably more like a 4.5 or 4.75 .
. .For this volume we're back to first-person narration, but it's not John Carter -- it's Ulysses Paxton, another Earth man who makes his way to Barsoom from the trenches of WWI-era Europe.
Paxton already has a basic familiarity with Barsoom because he's read ERB's previous books, although he thought they were fiction.
(Burroughs was meta before meta was a thing.)This is an interesting installment -- it has much more of a science fictional feel to it than other volumes (well, a 1920's SF feel), what with elaborate medical procedures up to and including brain transplants.
"The Master Mind of Mars" is book #6 of 11 John Carter adventures that Edgar Rice Burroughs gave to the world.
Paxton falls in love with a young woman, Valla Dia, whose body has been sold to an old empress, so that that empress can now live on in her new hotty body.
Clouds are said to obscure the moon in another scene, yet in earlier books, Burroughs has told us that clouds exist on Barsoom only at the poles.
And here's another quibble: Paxton falls in love with Valla Dia only after he has seen what her actual body looks like.
He has room after room of bodies suspended as if time did not pass.He trains Paxton, thinking that a man with nowhere to go is the most trustworthy he can find, and knowing he needs someone to transplant his own.But Paxton finds him aiding both the injured and the corrupt -- in particular, selling the body of a stunning young woman to a ugly old jeddaka -- in stunning indifference to cruelty, kindness, money, and anything else but knowledge.
John Carter is referred to in the letter which opens the story, and he shows up in the last chapter, so Burroughs maintains the connection to the rest of the series well.This book ranks fairly high in the series for me.
Because of the key role “A Princess of Mars” plays in the series I would rank that one above “The Master Mind of Mars” as well, but only slightly, and I feel that this story is better than the rest.
Or does outside / inside influence other side?Ulysses Paxton narrates death in Civil War, waking naked on Mars, apprenticeship to transplant expert ancient Ras Thavas of Toonol, who calls him 'Vad Varo'.
Vad suggests waking young brain now in old body.
If he and Vad transplant brains into young bodies, both can be immortal.
When he tries to blackmail Ras before transferring his brain to a young body, Ras orders Valla taken away and killed.
First is Dar Tarus, large red man angrily attacked Ras on Vad's first day.
Xaxa had Dar's handsome young body killed for saggy Phundahl noble to woo young woman.
(Ulysses Paxton has read A Princess of Mars and therefore knows all about John Carter; this sort of metahumor is a literary tradition going back to the second half of Don Quixote.)Paxton finds himself in a new, unexplored part of Mars (OF COURSE...did you expect anything different?) and promptly proceeds to find employment and friendship...and love (again, OF COURSE).
So I guess he dealt with his disillusionment "off camera".) (Really, did no one ever notice that the high priest is always conveniently absent when the statue is talking?)At the end of the book, Ulysses Paxton has fixed everything, demonstrated the importance of balancing rationalism and spiritualism, won his lady's love, won some new friends, and met John Carter in a brief cameo.
Although Burroughs’s earlier Barsoom novels are nominally science fiction thanks to their setting, ‘The Mastermind of Mars’ moves closer to true SF and away from the fantastical romances of its predecessors.
Unlike his earlier forays into this sort of thing, this one doesn’t really do much to further or add to the plot.The Barsoomian scientist – the ‘mastermind’ – Ras Thavas is introduced as a character and, as I remember, appears again in a later novel.
There is enough action to keep one interested through most of the novel and if the science fiction elements are dated and not overly original, they are still done reasonably well.
This book introduces a new hero, Ulysses Paxton, a young soldier who finds himself on Mars after having his legs blown off in the trenches of WWI.
Ulysses finds himself working for a scientist in the business of buying beautiful bodies and performing brain transplants for the discontented rich.
Ulysses falls in love with a beautiful young girl whose body has unfortunately been sold to an evil ugly Empress, and so he sets out to recover it for her and swap the two brains back into their rightful bodies.
Paxton uses these techniques to restore his beloved Valla Dia's brain into her own beautiful body after her brain had been swapped with that of the hideous Xaxa of Phundahl.These stories are not high art, or even good sci-fi/fantasy; but they are terrific yarns with exotic Barsoomian locales, fantastic beasts, flamboyant princesses, dastardly villains, and cliff-hanging adventures in which the hero gets the girl and the bad guy meets his (or her) just deserts.I've read and re-read these stories over the years, and even recorded them onto DVD for the local radio station for blind and reading-impaired listeners.
John Carter is not the only one who travels to Mars. Enter Captain Ulysses Paxton, US Army. While on the fields of battle in the Great War, Paxton suddenly mortally wounded and fixes his gaze on the twinkling red planet in the dark night sky. He stretches out his arms toward this sparkling light and in almost a blink of an eye finds himself laying flat on his back gazing up into a bright sun-lit sky. Standing over him is Ras Thavas, Barsoom’s greatest scientist. Thus begins the adventurers of another earthling gone to Mars. A quick and entertaining read.
This one has some horror elements in it that really make it sing. Sword & Planet as it should be done. However, it doesn't feature John Carter but Ulysses Paxton, an admirer of John Carter who also gets transported to Mars. I didn't think there was any letdown for going with a new character.
Thavas himself receives a brain transplant, having lived over a millennium, to a younger body, with Paxton, along with characters serving as Thuvas’ other experiments named Dar Tarus, Gor Hajus, and the ape with a human mind Hovan Du, fleeing in search of Valla Dia’s rightful body, with Paxton having fallen in love with her upon conversing with her antediluvian body.The party flies to Phundahl and gains access to Xaxa’s palace thanks to the exhibition of Hovan Du, with several complexities arising involving the religious followers of the god Tur, and eventual conclusion with a few marriages of major characters and appearance by John Carter.

Another great addition to the Warlord of Mars series. Unlike the other books in the series, this story delved into more science fiction aspects such as false gods and crazy medical experimentation. There was a mix of mailicous political intrigue and manipulation with some of the Mars rulers as a result of those "gods" and experiments which the main protagonist faced in his efforts throughout the book.
This book is proof that no matter how bad a series is, it is entirely possible to jump the shark.I mean, the main character is morally questionable, there's no other way to say it. I understand why we needed a new earthling, and though I appreciate what Burroughs was trying to do with Ulysses Paxton...The entire plot is stupid...I don't know what to say.
On of the good potboilers. Introduces Ulysses Paxton to Barsoonm and takes us to a couple of new cities. The real new introduction is mad scientist/surgeon Ras Thavas, whose person and lab are the best part of the first half but sadly dissappear from the second. Body-swap plotting, swipes at religion, some derring-do and lots of posturing nobility. A fun read
It's picking up again. There are more layers and better story-telling. I think we may have moved past some of the (I want to say lower-level descriptions and plot developments) hang-ups the previous two books seemed to have. And I am looking forward to the next!
The mad scientist stuff is pretty fun. As is the satire of militant atheists and religious fanatics. But it's adventure aspect is a bit boring and predictable even if his comrades are interesting. The later Barsoom books seem more like a cash in and lack the power of the earlier entries.
Another earthman makes it to Mars where he becomes involved in organ transplants that include brains. He falls for one of the girls and seeks to get her body back. Although written in the 20's, there is an interesting reference to wireless telephones and cameras.
This one is an unusual read in the series. While the first half seems to take forever to get going, the second half is much more straight forward and to the point as usual without the endless plot twist. So uneven but on average the same entertaining easy read as you expect from the barsoom saga.
A much better story then the last several books on the series. They should be read in order though. A quick but fun read.
I'm a fan of the entire ERB Mars series. Downloading again to reread and share with my grandson.
It was cool to see yet another character introduced to the world. I thought the brain swapping thing was super bizarre and cool too.
Absolutely an amazing series.
Then, to save the body of the woman he loved, he had to attack mighty Phundahl and its evil beautiful ruler.'The Sixth in Burroughs’ Martian series sees a new Earthman, Ulysses Paxton, transported from the Hell of the trenches of World War I to the red sands of Barsoom.
The real mastermind in this 6th Barsoomian adventure is actually Burroughs himself. This installment finds him back in that prime inventive mode that carries through his better works and that tends to be absent in many of his sequels. While there were a lot of strengths in “The Chessmen of Mars”, I feel like “The Master Mind of Mars” is where the series really regained strength. The story followed WW1 soldier Ulysses Paxton who admires John Carter and yearns to be on Mars. Paxton is shortly on
While there were a lot of strengths in “The Chessmen of Mars”, I feel like “The Master Mind of Mars” is where the series really regained strength.
Although, like about half the sequels, this Barsoom adventure doesn't include John Carter, Paxton proves up to the task of protagonist.
Another very welcome element in “The Master Mind of Mars” is one that had been absent since after “The Gods of Mars”, namely the critique of religion.
“The Master Mind of Mars” is among my favorite sequels in the Mars series.
Despite being the 6th novel in the series, in this story Burroughs proves that there are plenty of stories left to tell on Barsoom, and that John Carter or Carthoris don't need to be present to have a compelling story.Our protagonist is a World War I soldier with the incredibly badass name Ulysses Paxton.
When he gets blown in half by an artillery shell, he finds himself on Barsoom, a planet he knows well from Edgar Rice Burrough's stories.
I like that--as with John Carter's original teleportation to Mars--Burroughs doesn't go into detail about how the journey takes places.
The hero, Ulysses Paxton, is another Earthling who, like John Carter, has traveled to Barsoom to find a new life among the red men.
He awakes on Mars to find himself inside a mysterious compound led by a scientist who has perfected a means of transferring brains between bodies, so that a wealthy old empress may purchase the body of a beautiful young slave and regain lost youth.
The scientist sees nothing wrong with this behavior, as he believes that all people can and should act only in their self-interest.
He calls Ulysses Paxton a "sentimentalist" for believing in loyalty and affection as motivating forces.
These were considered "planetary romances" according to one source back when this series from the creator of Tarzan, Edgar Rice Burroughs, was written.
It's a Virginian, John Carter, an immortal, who is able to pass back and forth between bodies: one on Earth, the other on Mars.I read these books because they were an inspiration to other authors, such as Conan creator, Robert E, Howard, who paid tribute to Burrough's in his novella,  Almuric.
At the heart of today's popular sci-fi there are traces of Burroughs and John Carter of Mars.I was most interested in finding traces of George Lucas's Star Wars in these books; and traces abound.
If medical procedures could progress to a point where we could swap out any body part, including the brain, how would that affect society?
As a Barsoom novel, there are certain things you come to expect.
My two favorite things about Barsoom are the fantastic world filled with fantastic creatures and the larger than life characters (Particularly John Carter).
Vad Varo is no John Carter, and most of the novel took place on a small island so we didn't get to explore the world at all.All that being said, it was still an interesting science fiction novel.
