https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61894.The_Forbidden_Tower
I have read Darkover: Landfall, I have read Star of Danger, I have read Two to Conquer, I have read Heritage of Hastur, and I have read Spell Sword, and not one of them, not a single one, is a great book.
Perhaps they are "important." They may also be her "most personal," as Bradley claimed, and they may have been valuable to many pubescent girls in the 70's and 80's trying to come to terms with their own sexuality, but they are not, not by any definition we can all agree on, well-written books.
One of the brilliant aspects of good fantasy is how it takes real world issues and re-examines them in a different milieu The Forbidden Tower examines themes of duty, desire, masculine and feminine, tradition versus modernity, the past versus the future, family ties, what it means to be from a different culture plunked into one completely alien, and of course sexuality.
And much like my beloved Pern, Darkover is a fully-actualized world that could actually exist somewhere.Damon, Callista, Ellemir and Andrew felt like real people with real issues.
The Forbidden Tower could've been written now.
Andrew Carr of Earth and Damon Ridenow of Darkover fall in love with two twins of noble birth, Ellemir and Callista, but the world's against them!I started this about twelve years ago and got a couple of hundred pages in.
At times it felt very much like reading the script of a female-friendly porn film...More seriously (and quite Gor-ishly), the scenes where Andrew objected to being fondled by Damon during group sex irked me a bit, in that he's portrayed as a prude who has committed a huge faux pas.
This is the happily ever after sequel to The Spell Sword and while Bradley claimed you can read the Darkover series in any order, read The Spell Sword first.After rescuing Callista, can Andrew, an uptight, monogamous, cis male handle a marrying into a telepathic, polyamorous family and also cure Callista of her psionically induced frigidity?
Can Damon, his new brother in law protect them from external threats from and those from within using his powerful PSI powers?
Included for free in this family melodrama is plenty of star crossed and culturally blinded lovers.
Not a normal action adventure and a thoughtful, fun read.
Instead of battles, MZB treats the reader to an almost claustrophobic story of the twins Callista and Ellemir Lanart and their joint marriage to Damon Ridenow and Andrew Carr (a terran).
Callista has handed back her Keeper's oath of chastity, not realising that Leonie Hastur had essentially stopped her sexual development pre-puberty and put in place a mechanism where she would kill anyone who got near her in a sexual fashion, including her beloved new husband.
I had a strange memory about this book.
The story is a bit confused, mostly based on overworld and Keepers.
Callista, istructed as a keeper, found herself in love with Andrew Carr, a Earth man who saved her.
And now, with the help of her twin sister Ellemir and her husband Damon (a powerful psy, who could have been a keeper himself) she's trying to undo the costrinctions about herself.I loved this story.
I loved Damon, a great man, so Darkovan in his feelings, his doubts, his love.
A great book.
Why did my Dad recommend this book to me? It's basically about 4 telepathic wizards having an orgy to defeat the forces of conservatism. Clearly science fiction books written in the seventies went through some strange phases..
Since coming here to Cottman IV, he has nothing to his claim besides this skill.The two couples marry at the same time, (making their telepathic link stronger still.) For Ellemir, Damon’s years in the Tower, those years of which he never spoke, she learned that it made him unhappy if she asked him about it, and would always be a barricade between them, but not between Damon and Callista.
He battles to take his starstone away and burning it out, instead of killing Dezi.On one seemingly fortuitous night for Andrew and Callista, she believes herself ready for sex and they attempt to consummate their marriage, with the aid of their telepathic link to Damon and Ellemir’s coupling across the hall.
Again, this is not Marion Zimmer Bradley's strongest novel in the Darkover series. It is 400 pages, and yet very little actually happens during the novel. It has some interesting cultural exploration on sexuality and gender roles, but it feels dated at this point in time. As part of the Darkover series as a whole, it does provide the inspiration and background for changes that happen going forward. So from that standpoint it has its place. However, as a standalone novel, it is rather weak.
Thus, the very influential Valdir Alton appears in this book as a solemn 10 year old, fresh from Nevarsin, with his paxman Valentine Aillard (who himself made his debut in The Shattered Chain as the infant brother of the then teenage Jaelle).There's an odd mixture of people who are in later (according to internal chronology) books and those who are not.
The question which Diana Paxson asked was likely one of the central questions in the book, namely, how can a person who has been successfully conditioned against all human (and especially sexual) response be deconditioned?
Finally in audiobook! A good recording. I loved the book and found favorite characters in a different time on Darkover.
Research read. Interesting concepts to consider about how sexuality and roles can constrain us. Problematic in some aspects.
4.5 |
For centuries--or millennia or who knows how long, since Darkover's timeline changed whenever Bradley found it convenient--ever since the Ages of Chaos ended, use of laran has been restricted to those who were willing to give up outside friendships and families and dedicate their lives to the service of the Towers.
Enter the protagonists, who feel like this choice of human contact or keeping society running can't be the price of holding back the Ages of Chaos and that there much be another way.Most of the book is the titular Forbidden Tower, Damon and Ellemir and Callista and Andrew, trying to work out Callista's issues that remain from being a Keeper, and by the midway point of the book, it was kind of dragging.
Dezi used his psychic power to “teleport” away (something no other character has ever done on their own in any other Darkover novel, another way in which this novel is inconsistent with the other twenty something books in the series) but Dezi materialized in something solid, killing himself instantly.
I do realize that it’s a relatively early book from a time when Bradley was still learning her craft, but many other, better the Darkover novels were written prior to Forbidden Tower and she was only a few years away from writing her masterpiece, Thendara House.Maybe it’s unfair because, prior to this, I read Exhile’s Son, her last book, which was top flight.
It is not surprising, then, that this novel was a finalist for the Hugo award; it is an important contribution no just to science fiction and literature generally, but also to other similar second-wave feminist texts of the era (such as Russ's novels, Marge Piercy's _Woman out of Time_, and Tanith Lee's _The Birthgrave_, to name just a few), even if many feminists at the time (and likely still, if they read Bradley at all these days) disavowed much of her work on arguably reasonable ideological grounds (I particularly thought that the heteronormative assumptions of the novel were one blind spot amidst all the other truly revolutionary implications Bradley explores, which is strange given that she, herself, broke those boundaries only two years earlier in _The Heritage of Hastur_).Having said all of that, there are some weaknesses to this fine novel.
This is a sequel to The Spell Sword, which focused on a Terran, Andrew Carr, who at the end of that book married Callista, a member of the Comyn aristocracy.
The Spell Sword should probably be read before this book, but that short novel was written just as MZB was coming into her own as a writer, and The Forbidden Tower, which received a Hugo nomination for best novel, is a much stronger and complex book.
And this is one of the few books in the Darkover series, along with The Shattered Chain and Stormqueen!, where I can still really recall specific scenes and conversations in the book to mind even decades after my read.
You don't have to read The Spell Sword to read this book.
In fact, I didn't dig up The Spell Sword until well after I'd read this one--and that's saying something, because I'm usually meticulous about reading prequels first, if I can.The courtesies and culture shock of telepathic households are explored in domestic detail.
Paintings are mentioned, but most of them are old, and I don't recall any character taking up painting, even as a hobby.
There are probably portraitists in the marketplace, but there's no mention of how they learned their art.
1977) is the story of the creation of the "heretical" circle of telepaths who, choosing to work outside of the Towers of Darkover, challenge the two most strongly held beliefs that underlie the Tower system - that a Keeper must be essentially asexual, and that only the members of the ruling Comyn caste have enough laran to work in the Towers.The novel begins where The Spell Sword left off - with the clearing of the catmen and the planned union of Damon Ridenow to Ellemir Alton, and of Terran Andrew Carr to Callista Alton, formerly a Keeper of Arilinn under Leonie Hastur.
Grade C.
Book D4.
Year 2001.=======================================Notes on Forbidden Tower.
May contain spoilers.
These notes were taken during reading long before the internet existed.
I attempted to place each novel in a fictional chronological order based on content.
It does have errors.
Andrew marries Callista but has sex problems because of Keeper virginity complexes.
Keepers do not have to be restricted by tower rules and can be married.
Valdir, youngest true Alton, takes over control of the Comyn.---- charactersAndrew Carr (Terran)Callista AltonDamon Ridenow Ellimer Alton (ages 30-40)Valdir Alton (age 12)The next book would be Shattered Chain part 2.
Damon, Andrew, Callista, Ellemir are the four ingredients of the tower which is formed illegally to use telepathic ("matrix") power.
The central problem is Callista's virgin-conditioning, which unfortunately does not disappear when she marries Andrew and leaves her Tower.
Hence Andrew's difficult time adjusting to the presence of Damon, given the Terran taboo about homosexuality, and his problems with the notion of infidelity.
Like The World Wreckers, this is largely a sexual fantasy, and given the choice between that and feminist polemics, I far prefer this!
Importante, ma...
lentissimo!!L’ho riletto di recente, dopo tanti anni, ed è stato un po’ una delusione: la storia è lentissima e ripetitiva, e Callista (una dei quattro protagonisti), che viene ripetuto quanto dovrebbe essere ganza, passa gran parte del suo tempo a piangere o a fare poco o niente.
Sì, ha il suo exploit verso la fine quando sputa in faccia al suo fratellastro al Consiglio dei Comyn, ma non basta questo a renderla “ganza”, almeno secondo i miei canoni; al contrario, la sua gemella Ellemir che viene spacciata per quella meno capace, dimostra invece molto più carattere – e con alcuni picchi veramente felici – lungo tutto il libro, e non si smentisce affatto alla fine.
The second in this little series of Darkover books (following The Spell Sword), my cover has a gloriously inappropriate picture of a naked woman.
The Forbidden Tower is less an adventure than Spell Sword, written later, and spending more time with the interior lives of the characters.I find these Darkover books written later tend to be a bit looser than they should be, and could do with a bit of an edit.
But I really like this little series for the way it mirrors MZB's own discussion of marriage, relationships and sexuality.
Marion Zimmer Bradley is one of the few fantasy authors of the old school that I truly enjoy.
I must have read The Fall of Atlantis dozens of times.
I love the way she creates relationships between her characters: at their worst, characterized by horrific co-dependency and, at times, abuse, at their best, filling personal needs and creating communities of mutual love and respect.
She was also writing early enough in the 20th century to make some of her topics fairly racy for the times (a book including an obvious four-way sexual encounter between 2 women and 2 men?
I will definitely read more in the Darkover series.
I forgive the last book for leaving me with so many questions because this one resolved so many and solved so much of what was wrong with Darkover before. Still a horribly sexist place but groundwork laid for big changes. Even the sex stuff was explained better (i.e. the sharing of mates like it's no big deal). It was kind of like Heinlein without the weird culty vibe. Best of all is we finally got books that meshed together and let us follow characters instead of sending us lurching generations ahead.
Definitely enjoyed this book a lot, perhaps more than most of the other books in the Darkover series that I've read so far. Reading about how one experiences love in a telepathic society was very interesting. The differences and similarities between the two sisters, their growing bond and the changes each sister goes through would have made a good story on their own. Add in the growing bond between the sisters' husbands and The Forbidden Tower becomes a wonderfully written story to enjoy and learn from.
A story of four psi-wizards finding their relationship together, and struggling against establishment along the way. Though one of the four main characters is a Terran and thus an alien to Darkover, nevertheless the story as told could just have easily been all native, and thus feels more like fantasy than a Sci-Fi/fantasy hybrid.Though one in a series, it stands alone well, both as an introduction to the world and apart from others coming after.
It was a easy Reading with a good and quite different characters. You really need to be open minded to read stories about Darkover. A great work but as I was reading this book unfortannely I found out about the scandal. I still don't know what to think but Bradleys is no longer my favorite writter. I will separate the art from the artist since she is already dead and will not profit from her work but never again I'm going to admire her as an human being.
ISBN: 0-87997-323-4 [978-0-87997-323-0]Publisher: DAW BooksPub. Series: DAW CollectorsPub. Series #: 256Price: $1.95Pages: 364Binding: pbCover: Richard HescoxNotes: "First Printing, September 1977".First printing by number line 123456789"Cover art by Richard Hescox" on copyright page, cover is also signed.Interior art piece is not credited, has Hescox's signatureDAW Books No. 256; DAW catalog #UJ1323
This was a reread, though I hadn't read the original since high school. I will say that the story was perhaps less compelling to me than it was then (OOh, sex and rebellion!) but the characters and details are still so richly drawn that it's a good read. I don't think Bradley gets enough credit for the Darkover novels -- it's such a complexly imagined world, and she details it so completely from the history down to the making of bread.
