https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421727.Philosophy_in_a_New_Key
Again, arguable, since solutions to practical problems have come in dreams (e.g. the concept of the double helix for DNA.)About a hundred pages into the book, and so far she's concentrated on the difference between signs and sumbols, and the difference between discursive and presentational forms.
I'm enjoying the chapter On Significance in Music more than any other so far, as it covers what makes an expression artistic (e.g. why is a Greek vase art and a water bucket just craft?) Langer supports the idea that the distinction is Significant Form.
This work is in two, broad parts.
The first, greater part distinguishes between signal/sign and symbol.
My cat knows its name as a sign for attention from its owner.
I can now "Albert Einstein" as a symbol for someone I have never even met or seen and all that that entails.
Hinted at by some music notation examples, the second part courageously attempts to define art and settles on music as the case to build on.
Art is expression: the transport a symbol makes but without untethered to a language.This work will appeal to students of philosophy, philologists, and aestheticians.
A good book about the importance of symbolizing for human thinking.
There are passages that (hopefully) would be left out if the book were to be published today - for instance how she constantly exemplifies mysticism and savageness with colonized natives.
Personally, I skipped most of those parts, since they often also clearly are wrong and not even helpful to understand the 'philosophy in a new key' which is Langer's main concept.
That set aside, this is a work that continues to be important in our day for overlapping aesthetics and theoretical philosophy.
This is a sound start to start questioning some of the concepts in philosophy that we take for granted or already de-mystified.
Some provocative earl semiotics ideas although some examples haven't aged well.
Written in 1941, it has some language that is outmoded and offensive today, but please, let it go and read for her main ideas.
She was a student of Whitehead's, so i would expect no less, but it is still refreshing after wading through obscure, horrifically written books about art.
She went on to write the much longer Feeling and Form, which develoips, refines and extends the ideas in Philosophy in a New Key, and then, a three volume work (I don't remember the title) that expands even further.
I will certainly read Feeling and Form, but the 3 volume work will have to wait behind Proust, Boswell, Musil and Gibbon.
Langer begins her last chapter in Philosophy in a New Key with this: “All thinking begins with seeing; not necessarily through the eye, but with some basic formulations of sense perception." I love what Langer has to say about sensuous analysis and this book would be an interesting philosophical companion to David Abram's The Spell of the Sensuous: Perception and Language in a More-Than-Human World.
While not totally related, I found myself thinking about both pieces a lot (and also interesting to note, one (Langer) explores music, and one (Abram) seems to have somewhat of an emphasis on language).
I agree that it's a "must read." Of course, I have a long time interest in philosophy. Langer is a good answer to people who think that women don't do philosophy, of course they do, and she did. It's helpful as a compendium of the thoughts in philosophy in the middle of the Twentieth Century. That's an important period for Anglo/American philosophy and Langer is a good source to understand some of that. It's also good just for brilliant thinking and insightful looks at about everything she considers. Highly recommended.
A brilliant book about the philosophy of art. It is a study of symbolism, but primarily non-discursive (or nonverbal) symbolism in art, music, ritual, myth, etc. She presented material from many sources either forgotten or inaccessible because of the language barrier (Langer was bilingual, a German-American). I found it a good read and several good quotes that I suspect can shed light on some Soviet semiotics of art.
Langer's writing is engaging and her use of semiotic as a glass through which to view the development of human culture is thought-provoking. The impoverishment she describes in the final chapter has the most resonance for me, although certainly my own world-view invested it with more significance than Langer intended. Most significant is the impact she had on Walker Percy.
I read her "The Lord of Creation" collected in the Borzoi College Reader, an excellent essay on language, symbols, as force of cultural creation and destruction in human society. So I am making a note to look out for books by her in the future.
It is a little bit boring, but when points are made they are pretty damn insightful/eye-opening.
skimmede den kun. kunstkapitlet er gammeldags på den måde, at det ikke kan tænke tanken, at kunst er mode. det er vel en oplagt teori i dag?
An absolute "must read" for anyone interested in the nature of language, and non-linguistic forms (symbols) for communicating meaning. . .
