https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39058.The_Gormenghast_Novels
He paints each scene, each moment, in such careful, loving, playful detail that it can only be described by the original definition of 'sublime': a vista which is so grand and beautiful that it dwarfs our humanity, evoking a wonder akin to fear.But Peake's writing is not so entirely alienating; on the contrary: he is vividly concerned with life.
The magic of Peake's world is the absurdly perfect figures that people it.They are stylized and symbolic, but like Gogol, Peake is working off of his own system of symbology instead of relying on the staid, familiar archetypes of literature.

And the lonely boy Titus Groan, the heir of the monstrously huge castle of Gormenghast, must grow up and fight the lethargic, deadly inertia and crush fatal cosmic evil surrounding him.And the language of the saga is a creation of an unadulterated wizardry:It gave Mr Flay what he imagined must be pleasure.
Then they would return with a sense of accomplishment to the play of the beams.When we grow up we pass the point of no return so there is no way for us to come back to the serene and cozy world of our childhood.The Gormenghast is an ultimate coming-of-age tale, a real Armageddon of good and evil and it is one of the best and most original books of the twentieth century.
Gormenghast is like Edgar Allen Poe but with a very wicked sense of humour, a dash of PG Wodehouse even, more than a few crumbs of Dickens of course, and umpteen gallons of Gothic sensibility sloshed in.
It's seriously unserious.As minutely imagined as the gigantic castle and its inhabitants are, yet still, the more I thought about the lives here displayed, the less it all made sense – why does no one have any kind of married life?
(I spotted one single Christian reference but religion is strictly avoided even throughout such things as christenings and funerals).
The first two volumes of which come across as being strongly inspired by Peake's childhood as a missionary's son in China while the third has the taste of post World War II Europe.The Earls of Groan rule Gormenghast.
The Earls of Groan seem to be completely isolated from the wider world (view spoiler)[ in the second book there are some teachers who appear to have come from somewhere else, but I may be deceiving myself (hide spoiler)] and live a life governed by strict ceremony.
WARNING: The posts below are purely fictional. They never happened, and were not posted by real people. Any similarities to anyone, including myself, are purely your imagination. Even the posts posted by real people were not posted by real people. Any similarities between this thread and reality are entirely coincidental. But, that scary picture of the blond guy crying? Oh, that's real. That's so sad, and so real.

Since I have a cat and bird obsession myself, I think she touches some dark part of me that lives in a tower in a semi-feral state, sporting outrageous piles of hair and billowing garments covered in candle wax.Update on 30 July 2017: I keep reflecting on the soliloquies and silent reflections of Lord Groan, and I believe that these remind me most of Shakespeare's tragic kings, especially Lear.
So, if I have already said that this book is something like the love child of Dickens and Carroll, I would have to toss in Shakespeare and Monty Python, for good measure, and conclude too that some of the poetry had been inspired by Poe!
Oscuridad en las cuatro alas de Gormenghast.Los libros de Titus: Titus Groan, Gormenghast y Titus Solo, son una trilogía accidental, parte de lo que iba a ser un ciclo más amplio, que contaría la vida de Titus Groan, Septuagésimo séptimo conde de Gormenghast, desde su nacimiento hasta el fin de sus días.Estamos ante un tipo de fantasía diferente, en la que no encontramos ninguno de sus elementos clásicos, no hay seres fantásticos, ni magia, ni grandes batallas… es un mundo que roza el surrealismo, más influenciado por el gótico y los clásicos que por otras obras fantásticas.
The Gormenghast Trilogy, Gothic and Dickensian in style, tells the life of the heir to an ancient, vast, and crumbling castle and the intrigue, treachery, and murder therein.
Written at a time of great suffering because of the failure of his previous work, The Gormenghast Trilogy is inundated in a deep sense of woe that encompasses both the setting and the characters; however, rather than merely weighing me down, Peake has shown me the deeper and darker chasms of the human soul.
Peake, however, also vividly captures romanticism in the character of Fuchsia, Lord Sepulchrave’s daughter.
One of the great hermetic works of literature. A complete and total world unto itself, almost to the point of detaching from the Earth and assuming its own orbit. If it were to do this it would be a strangely barren world however, a barren world of endlessly ramifying imagination, an almost airless world, a world both vast and microscopic. These books, this world, induced a tremendous sense of mental claustrophobia in this reader, yet all these years later I still long to return to it.
Don't compare to lord of the rings..compare to Kafka, Poe, Lewis Carroll,or maybe Edward Gorey..a mostly drop dead funny book(or books) that retains a sense of unbearable grimness.
Robert Smith felt like the drowning man because he couldn't get into the story and change things for Fuchsia.
That's why I read, to be able to feel that strongly for someone (real or not, matters naught to me because it did come out of someone's mind).
Not betting my life 'cause the old memory really does stink up the joint).Mervyn Peake puts things in terms that makes me really see it, because his word choices provoke something new yet familiar, like how The Beatles always sound fresh and "How I've missed you!" at the same time.
Boy in Darkness is my other all-time favorite Mervyn Peake.
The Gormenghast trilogy is as close to perfection as literature can be. It is unique, sublime, whimsical, moving, weird, surprising, otherworldly, and written in shimmering, velvety, voloptouos prose, wonderful beyond belief. No amount of imagery, sumptuous, voluminous, sensuous or rapturous can even begin to describe the delights of Peake's masterpiece. A true triumph of language and imagination.
I want to be buried with this book.More, later.
Titus Groan: Part 1 of 3: Peake’s writing in this first Gormenghast novel reminds me of E.R. Eddison’s in The Worm Ouroboros, both for its fecundity and for the manifest enjoyment in the English language its author feels. Twenty years ago – even as few as 10 – I wouldn’t have appreciated this book and would have stopped reading it rather quickly but today I can’t help but thrill to opening passages like:This tower, patched unevenly with black ivy, arose like a mutilated finger from among the fi
The eyes in whose expression might be read the unending grudge they bore against the nose were as small as marbles and peered out between the grey grass of the hair.
He begins the story a close-mouthed, ill-tempered man but becomes one of Titus’s fiercest protectors and close friend.Fuchsia, Titus’s older sister, begins the books a spoiled, utterly self-centered brat but she also grows and matures into a woman (view spoiler)[whose tragic end is moving and gut wrenching.What was the darkest of the causes for so terrible a thought it is hard to know.
Mervyn Peake built a realistic world, full of evil, gentle, quirky, fasinating, unforgettable characters.
The brightest of them all is Steerpike (the protagonist in Titus Groan and Gormenghast.
A delisciously evil mastermind we love to hate.
(view spoiler)[Also, the tragic character of Fuchsia will break your heart (hide spoiler)].
In my opinion, the third novel of the trilogy Titus Alone wasn't as interesting as its two predecessors, but overall, this is an iconic work in British Literature.The 2000 BBC adaptation, starring Jonathan Rhys Meyers, Christopher Lee and Ian Richardson among others, combines the first two installments in a brilliant way.
Someone please give me the power to finish trudging through this book. Interesting idea & setting, but the writing is T.E.D.I.O.U.S.I love nice descriptive writing as much as the next reader, but this is kind of ridiculous.
Titus Groan will be the 77th Earl of Gormenghast, and one day too he will live to perform the endless rituals set out in the ancient books and prescribed by their Master of Rituals.
Gormenghast is more than just a castle or a place; it’s a world suspended in a water droplet.I wasn’t surprised, when I read all the various introductions and critical assessments in this volume, to learn that Peake was an illustrator and a poet.
I wish these things, because I can see the castle from where I stand, far away—I can see why people enjoy these books so much.
As I mentioned before, most of the characters are only part of the scenery set for Titus Groan, even they at their specific moment bear significance and push the storyline forward.It takes the plotting of a traitor and a flood of Biblical dimension to shake the picture of a world that would otherwise never move as it is built on solid rock.
Though Titus Groan from an early age felt he was different, the hunt for the traitor is what sparks his evolvement and initially sets him roaming as a stranger in a strange land.
It is obvious to interpret the works as the human battle against the estrangement from yourself and from the surrounding world.
Not to be compared with Lord of the Rings but appreciated as its own distinctive universe, owing more stylistic debts to Carroll, Poe, Dickens and a touch of Kafka, Mervyn Peake's world of Gormenghast is a dark and bizarre fairy tale without the fairies, or more aptly, a tale of grotesques.
I was interested to learn from the critical analyses that Mervyn Peake had aspired to be a painter but lacked the confidence and so turned to words for paint (though he was known in his day for his illustrations, his Gormenghast novels are his masterpiece).
Personalities are either very much larger than life, very much smaller, or vague to the point of almost vanishing before they do, in fact, permanently disappear from the scene entirely.3)	There is no other classification into which it could comfortably fit.The castle itself is perhaps the most vivid character in the story, which is one explanation why the story loses cohesion in the third book, after a teenage Titus leaves home.
The other reason is that Peake did not complete the book before he died and it only exists in a rough draft form.
One reviewer once quipped that Gormenghast reads like "Dickens on crack"- a statement which, perhaps, accurately describes the weird, wonderful and whimsical world of Gormenghast; from the cantankerous Flay to the Machiavellian Steerpike, to the lachrymose Lord Gormenghast and the eccentric Doctor Prunesquallor, the cast of characters who populate the novel only serve to accentuate the outlandish and grotesque, drug-addled atmosphere which pervades the novel.Not only this, but the reader's senses are worn out by a cacophony of images and colours; from the bilious sun-rise, to the dank and dreary forest, there is something nightmarish and decadent about the world in which Gormenghast is set.
Drama is provided by Peake’s setting up dyads and triads of antipathies in his characters, conflicts intensifying and almost always resulting in the deaths of one of his primary personages, the intrigue and tension building throughout the first two books, which are very much of a unified pair themselves, and always highlighting the development of the character of Titus as the accelerating claustrophobia of his own life deepens his self-understanding.The third book, Titus Alone, was reconstructed posthumously from Peake’s notebooks and has an ambiance all its own; it is almost as if the story starts anew, for now Titus has left Gormenshast on a quest primarily to escape the constricting demands and expectations of his hereditary role.
Do you know what kind of effort would be required to build a thing like that?" All of which is quite aside from the point, of course, but illustrates just how not excited I was by it.Probably the fact that he spent 100+ pages introducing absurdist characters, for whom I had no sympathy, without actually introducing anything resembling, say, a plot, contributed to my ennui.But, then, I guess ennui itself is quite in keeping with this universe...
This is fantasy that owes absolutely nothing to Tolkien (not that I'm putting him down, LOTR is fabulous) If one thinks of Middle Earth as a Macrocosm, then Goremenghast is a Microcosm.
Think of Dickens, Intoxicated with the English Language, writing a Gothic Fantasy, and you get some of the feeling.
I have, like I would think most Goodread members, read more books then I can count.
Becuase of this, it is impossible to list an "all time favorite book" If however, you were to hold a pistol to my head, I might list the Trilogy as my Favorite Book.Reading this review again, I am disappointed by its briefness.
I watched the BBC mini-series and have it tentatively marked as something to consider reading some day cuz somewhence it's been indicated that it's readable.
and Netflix stocks it.Watching the series clarifies why Vollmann recommends "the first two books" of the trilogy.
the first three episodes of four) are charmingly Alice in Wonderland-ish absurdishness and quirkishness and the final episode is mostly a stupid, whining princelet heir to the throne moaning about "I hate Gormenghast" (the polis or the book?) and whinging about "what about me me me me me?" and the whole unsympathizable "Why Do I Have To Be A Power Slave?" and devolves into standard liberal/romantic bullshit ideology.The Significant hated the mini-series but saw something which suggested also that the books might be worth reading.
I'd call it Shakespeare for the Lord of the Rings set.
Did I just write that?
Peake's imagination is otherwordly.
His descriptive talent is singular.
His language does remind me of Shakespeare or a particularly eloquent philosophical writer or something.
The first two books are the best, concerning a dying feudal society and the leadership thereof.
Everything is crumbling and near a breaking point.This book required great attention and committment to read, but I can honestly say I'll read it again and think about images from it all the time.
I reviewed each book in this trilogy separately, but this was the actual edition I read. Overall, I easily give the trilogy 5 stars, even though the last book did not have the same setting and characters as the first two and so I couldn't help but rate it slightly lower. This edition includes numerous critiques and essays which have been interesting to read so far.
Stark: dry: unequivocal: and cryptic: a thing of crusts and water." While the writing style of this third book in the Gormenghast trilogy is so different, it still has the taste and flavor of Peakes eloquent and repugnant writing.
While more abstract in his writing, he follows some themes that we continue to see throughout this short book, such as can we really escape who we are?
He also displays a unique way of writing and no one that reads Peake can object to his fanciful words that draw you in to his story.
