https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126903.Barefoot_in_the_Park
Barefoot in the park,  Neil SimonBarefoot in the Park is a romantic comedy by Neil Simon. The play premiered on Broadway in 1963, and starred Robert Redford and Elizabeth Ashley. The play was made into a film in 1967, also starring Redford (and Jane Fonda). Corie and Paul Bratter are a newlywed couple. For their first home, they live in an apartment on the top floor of a brownstone in New York City. During the course of four days, the couple learns to live together while facing the usual daily u
(کوری برایش نوشابه می‌ریزد)، مجبور شدم ماشینو شیش تا خیابون اون‌ورتر پارک کنم...، بعد یهو بارون گرفت، و دوتا خیابونِ باقی‌مونده رو دویدم.
این چیزی که گفتی خیلی کثیف بودکوری (به سمت پل می‌رود) هیچ وقت ندیدم ژاکت تنت نباشه.
(در حین ادای این کلمات به سمت نیمکت می‌رود) مجبوری بری طرفِ پیشخون و چیزی رو که می‌خوای با انگشت نشون بدی و بگی: «از اینا می‌خوام که توی این ظرف ریختن»؛***پل چه دعوایی؟ فقط یک کمی صدامون بالا رفته بودکوری تو اسم اینو نمی‌ذاری دعوا؟ کل ازدواج‌مون زیر سوال رفتهپل (بر پلکان می‌نشیند) جداً؟ از کی تا حالا؟کوری از همین الان.
خیلی قشنگ و لطیف است.از یه ترکیب تکراری نمایشنامه ای-زن جذاب و پرهیاهو و مرد جدی و اخمو- استفاده کرده و شخصیتی "خلق"نکرده و همه تیپ هستند ولی گفتگوها و روند داستان خلاقانه و دلنشین است.شخصیت ماری مثل نسیم خنک در بیابان است، آرامش بخش و دوست داشتنی.اما من پل را بیشتر دوست داشتم.مرد زندگیه واقعا!دوست دارم اجرایش را ببینم.واقعا دوستش داشتم.
منم عاشقشم فقط نمیدونم چی میخواد.
نمیدونم چطوری میتونم خوشحالش کنم.
وای مامان، چی کار باید بکنم؟مامان: ...
خیلی ساده ست.
فقط باید یه بخش کوچیک خودتو به اون اختصاص بدی.
همه چی رو بازی فرض نکن.
فقط آخرای شب تو اون اتاق کوچیک بالای پلهها جای بازیگوشیه.
ازش مراقبت کن و بذار حس کن آدم مهمیه.
اگه بتونی از پس این کار بربیای زندگی شاد و بینظیری در انتظارته.*** چالش یه زوج عاشق، دو آدم با دو تیپ شخصیتی متفاوت.
یکی دچار کمال گرایی و نداشتن توانایی برای با فراغ بال تفریح کردن و اون یکی ماجراجو و ریسکی و پش
منم عاشقشم فقط نمیدونم چی میخواد.
فقط باید یه بخش کوچیک خودتو به اون اختصاص بدی.
فقط آخرای شب تو اون اتاق کوچیک بالای پله‌ها جای بازیگوشیه.
اگه بتونی از پس این کار بربیای زندگی شاد و بی‌نظیری در انتظارته.*** چالش یه زوج عاشق، دو آدم با دو تیپ شخصیتی متفاوت.
توی این دیالوگ قضیه از همه بهتر مشخص می شه: تو خیلی آتیشت تنده، همینجور بی هوا شیرجه میزنی توی زندگی، ولی پل مثل منه، بی گدار به آب نمیزنه، اول نگاه میکنه.توی این مبحث خرده جنایات زناشویی نمایشنامه ی قوی تری بود اما این نمایشنامه طنز قوی تری نسبت به بقیه نمایشنامه هایی که تابحال خوندم داشته.
This was thoroughly enjoyable and far too short. The cast was fantastic and perfect for this Neil Simon's timeless story.
There is something about reading a play blankly that inspires the imagination, and never having seen this staged allowed me to direct it all in my head with the gentle nudging of Neil Simon.I did like Barefoot in the Park.
But beyond that I am struggling to see what it has going for it; in fact, having rewatched episodes of Brady Bunch, Mary Tyler Moore, WKRP, and M*A*S*H* this week, Barefoot in the Park seems to have less going for it than those half-hour sit coms.
If anything, Barefoot in the Park is just a long form sit-com.
I'll take the four sit-coms over Barefoot in the Park, I think.
First off, you weren't gonna read this anyway, and second, it's Neil Simon so you have to expect a happy ending.) Ok, anyway, they get back together, but not before lots of whackiness ensues.
Their upstirs neighbor (who lives in the attic) is really my kinda guy--eating funky foods, saying funky stuff--I'd fix him up with my grandmother if he existed in real life.
And thanks to the funky neighbor, they all sorta get a whole new lease on life and re-learn to love each other and live happily after (and hopefully, have fantastic sex 3-5 times per week for all eternity).
Delightful comedy.The movie featuring Jane Fonda and Robert Redford remains among my favorites.
I guess half the sitcoms of the 60s-70s have Neil Simon’s humor. It’s great stuff.
Paul and Corie Bratter have been married just six days when they move into their first home together - an apartment five floors up (six, if you count the stoop) with a broken skylight (in winter), no furniture, and no bathtub.
On the other hand, Paul is much more like Corie sees Victor as a potential match for her widowed mother, Ethel Banks, who is trying to deal with the marriage of her only child.
Corie sets her mother up on a blind date with Victor - though she doesn't mention this to Ethel.
The four of them go to an Albanian restaurant chosen by Victor, and the differences between Corie and Paul become extremely evident.
Basic Plot: Paul and Corie are two newlyweds trying to figure each other out and make their brand-new marriage work despite their personal differences.This play was cute, but is getting to be considerably dated.
Paul and Corie hardly seem to know what they've gotten into by marrying each other.
Well, as a theatre person who would theoretically be seeking to put on the show, I would have trouble getting my actors to connect to the character interactions.
The big lesson of the play is that she needs to try to take care of her husband and make him happy.
The role of Corie is a lot of fun; she's completely in love and naive.
The other, smaller roles are nice touches with the telephone repair man really owning his moments.However, like Corie and her realization of marriage, my honeymoon stage with the play ended and I wasn't as thrilled with the other two acts.
It ends on a better note than I thought it would, though I would like more closure.
There's not much in realizations, just reactions to crazy moments.Still, what we watch is great and the first week of Corie and Paul's marriage is a riot.
I liked this better than Arsenic and Old Lace, but it is also quite dated. I disagree with some that the Corie character is a complete airhead. I think she is very self centered, but I think there is some growth to the part. Mother (obviously) develops throughout; Victor is the male counterpoint to Corie (only when faced with a problem does he realize his own limitations) and Paul does not really change much. I have not seen it live, but I think would find it entertaining.
کوری: منم عاشقشم فقط نمیدونم چی میخواد. نمیدونم چطوری میتونم خوشحالش کنم. وای مامان، چی کار باید بکنم؟مامان: ... خیلی ساده ست. فقط باید یه بخش کوچیک خودتو به اون اختصاص بدی. همه چی رو بازی فرض نکن. فقط آخرای شب تو اون اتاق کوچیک بالای پلهها جای بازیگوشیه. ازش مراقبت کن و بذار حس کن آدم مهمیه. اگه بتونی از پس این کار بربیای زندگی شاد و بینظیری در انتظارته.#پابرهنهـدرـپارک
کوری: منم عاشقشم فقط نمیدونم چی میخواد. نمیدونم چطوری میتونم خوشحالش کنم. وای مامان، چی کار باید بکنم؟مامان: ... خیلی ساده ست. فقط باید یه بخش کوچیک خودتو به اون اختصاص بدی. همه چی رو بازی فرض نکن. فقط آخرای شب تو اون اتاق کوچیک بالای پله‌ها جای بازیگوشیه. ازش مراقبت کن و بذار حس کن آدم مهمیه. اگه بتونی از پس این کار بربیای زندگی شاد و بی‌نظیری در انتظارته.#پابرهنهـدرـپارک
She and Paul have their first and only fight and she's hysterically shrieking about wanting a divorce and then doesn't let up about it til the play is basically over.
It's hard to sympathize with her when Paul is being so reasonable and she's losing her shit.
I also had a hard time understanding why she cares so much about what her mother thinks of her apartment when she's supposed to be this unencumbered free-spirit.
Anyway, the play has a nice ending that will leave audiences smiling, but I think it's lost a lot of the appeal it probably had when it first debuted.
This was a fun, quirky little tale essentially about the first real fight between a newlywed couple. Funny, ridiculous in points, and just enough to make you appreciate the relationships in your life. Not a classic by any means, but a short, interesting read, and I'm sure a fun comedy to see on stage.3/5
I picked the perfect time of year to read this cozy, funny little play about a couple just beginning to carve out their new lives together as newlyweds. I love autumn in NY!
Kind of hard to like this play since Corie is such an airhead. I guess one has to see it fully performed to enjoy the whole thing.
Oh this was good! It was an Audible sale version, and I just loved it. Neil Simon does dialog that lives.
An American classic comedy. It's a little dated, but still pretty entertaining. The audiobook I listened to had Laura Linney as Corie, and I think it was a perfect match.
On a tired evening, this book with a coffee is going to cheer you up like none. A very good read.
Deceptively simple; deceptively complex. Easy to see why this was such a hit!
***.A newly married couple get their first apartment in New York.
The setting provides for lots of one-liners and jokes based on confusion and double-entendre.
I remember a skit from an early Sid Caesar show that had Sid and Imogene visiting friends of theirs in their new apartment.
The apartment was on the 10th floor (or whatever), and the two comedians spent the first ten minutes dragging around and trying to breathe.
I can remember that setting vividly, and it seems Simon liked it, too, and used it again.
I also remember the film based on this play being better than the play itself.

Witty, hilarious, fast-talking comedy.
I love it.
I fell in love with the Robert Redford and Jane Fonda film adaptation first, but the play is just as wonderful on the page.
The dialogue is fantastic and the characters are all so unique.
One of my favorite lines of the play (and movie) belongs to Paul:CORIE: I have never seen you without a jacket.
I always feel like such a slob compared to you.
Before we were married I was sure you slept with a tie.PAUL: No, no.
Just for very formal sleeps.If you’re looking for a laugh, I recommend Barefoot in the Park!
The Simon style of desperation and stereotypes are in full display here. This play has not aged well. The women are written as flighty ditzes. People who cannot function without the sound guidance of a man. The one redeeming moment comes in act 2 when a fight about the nature of divorce enters an absurd intelligence. This play is a voice of its time... But that is all.
Dated, but held up so much better than `The Odd Couple' because at least it was still funny. Realized though that I was hearing Jane Fonda's voice from the movie version in my head as I read this instead of Elizabeth Ashley who played the Corie role onstage - would have been marvelous to have seen Mildred Natwick as the mother on stage
Dated, but held up so much better than `The Odd Couple' because at least it was still funny. Realized though that I was hearing Jane Fonda's voice from the movie version in my head as I read this instead of Elizabeth Ashley who played the Corie role onstage - would have been marvelous to have seen Mildred Natwick as the mother on stage
I have a confession to make... I'm pretty over Neil Simon plays... Aside from maybe Rumors... Once you've read enough though they are all very much the same and just bit my style at this point in life...
It's funny how dated this seems now... But funny enough to make me smile.
5 stars- Ms. Jenn
Such a lovely play. I sure hope Corie and Paul are the 2 in 10.
