https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34262106-everything-here-is-beautiful
And then, her worst fear: that the line between her sister and her illness was becoming irrevocably blurred. Lately, I'm really enjoying these quieter family drama books with strong writing, unforgettable characters, and a deep emotional pull. Perhaps I'm a little burned out on tropes and action but, whatever the reason, Everything Here Is Beautiful worked its way into my heart and kept me hooked on the characters' lives until the very last page.At its heart, this novel looks at living with a c
Lucia's life moves through ups and downs, soon taking her away from Yonah and to a young Ecuadorian called Manuel, who is living in New York as an undocumented immigrant.
Miranda, Manuel and Yonah are all intricately-drawn, with their own stories being as important and poignant as Lucia's.The book moves through several different perspectives and switches between first and third person.
She considers Lucia's fear that her illness is the "reality" and that the pills are numbing it, as well as Miranda and Manuel's difficulty of distinguishing eccentricities from mental illness.
This novel was an intense meditation on how mental illness can affect not only the person suffering, but everyone around them.
I wanted Lucia to understand that she was ill, and to understand why she desperately needs to take care of herself.
I wanted to force Lucia to see the light, just as her sister, Miranda did.
I also appreciated that this book shined a bright light on the topic of mental illness and opened up a dialogue for an issue that I think has been shrouded in darkness and stigmatized for far too long.
I want to open up a dialogue about mental illness.
The instability of the disease and the stability of relationships.But there is a whole lot going on in this story that is not beautiful, but instead very sad and heartbreaking.
The guilt of living her own life not knowing at times where her sister was especially when not getting treatment.It's about living with the illness and the reactions from people not familiar with the disease- another battle on its own.But, there are moments of beauty here too.
This is life- in its moments of darkness, heart achingly sad and gloomy; in its light, exquisitely blindingly bright and beautiful.
ISRAELI’S DON’T ICE FISH!......
They live in the desert- ice fishing in Michigan is crazy-thinking to a grumpy Israeli-immigrant.
Miranda has felt responsible for her younger sister, Lucia, since they were young - especially after their mother died.
It’s Miranda that keeps tracks of Lucia’s behavior - knows her history more than anyone - tracks her medications - but she also can never be 100% sure when Lucia is ‘in’ her disease or if her spunky personality is her normal state of being.
Miranda makes suggestions - but it’s not her place to control her sister either.
The times when the complexities of a woman's recurring mental illness not only take over her life, but impacts the lives of the people close to her - her sister, the men in her life, her baby daughter.
It's also very much her sister Miranda's story who is desperate to help Lucia get the right diagnosis, the right medication and puts her life on hold every time Lucia needs help whether she wants it or not .
The story is told from multiple points of view - Miranda's and Lucia's, both when she is doing well and the times when she isn't.
Lucia is a schizophrenic and Miranda tries everything she can to help her sister.
The author shows how each person close to Lucia is touched by this mental illness.
I don't think anyone knew the severity of Lucia's illness but her sister did.
He then finally made sure that Lucia took her medications, seeing that she was a danger for him and his daughter.He had to be responsible.
I loved how the author has provided us with an insight into each characters thoughts.
The author did a really good job bringing the book to life with the characters.
Two very different women, trying to have stable lives, but find many impediments in their paths.
We hear many different viewpoints, from different people, see and feel many different sides as those close try to help Lucia, keep her stable, taking her meds.How this drains them, often not knowing what to do, nor how to help or even cope.It is Lucia's story, her thoughts that bring the reader into her very being, her inner core.
We see the toll this takes on all.It is also as novel about the alienation, the fear people feel when they don't know how to fix things.
5 Deeply moving, honest stars to Everything Here Is Beautiful!May all books about mental health challenges be this honest, this realistic.
The story follows Miranda and Lucia throughout their lives, including Lucia’s development of a mental illness and thereafter.
When Miranda wasn’t there, it was Yonah (oh, what a loveable character!), Lucia’s first husband.
Through empathy there comes true acceptance, and I think that’s what many facing difficulties with mental health want more than anything.
I think it shows how much we all cared about this book and its characters.
5 Stars for this heartbreaking story of a young woman named Lucia with mental illness, who struggles with the “serpents” inside her. A story of how this mental illness impacts her relationships with her very close older sister, and then later her husband, lover, and child. We are taken to many locations in this book as Lucia changes her life course.. from New York, to Ecuador, to Minnesota. Also covered in this story are immigration, and Mental Health Care. This was, surprisingly, a debut novel! Well done!Thank you to NetGalley and Penguin Group Viking for the ARC
But when Lucia decides she wants something different, and leaves Yonah and their life behind, all Miranda can do is wait until everything falls apart again.How much can one person be expected to sacrifice for a loved one?
Miranda's life is lived in stops and starts as she waits for the next crisis to emerge.Lucia then meets Manny, a young Ecuadorian immigrant, and has a baby with him.
For a while it does, but Lucia can never escape the fact that she lives with mental illness, no matter how she tries to fight those who want what is best for her.
While Miranda takes a traditional, stable path in life, Lucia’s relationships are more complicated, as she copes with the challenges of living outside her own country, motherhood, and the shadow of her illness haunting her and her loved ones.
The drain mental illness takes on the family is emphasized, as even those who start out being involved and supportive, lose their tenacity, and fall away, like casualties or collateral damage.
While watching the family dynamics morph from a typical sisterly relationship into one of obligation and bitterness, it’s hard to miss the sinister hold such a serious disease has on the lives of these characters.
Lee tells a complex story, dealing not only with mental illness, but also talking about experiences with immigration (Miranda and Lucia are Chinese-American, Yonah is from Israel and Manny is a illegal immigrant from Ecuador), about finding a home in the world, about finding a way to be happy.
There is a point in this story where every time Lucia does something Manny cannot understand, he blames her illness, never thinking that maybe he is not innocent in how their relationship evolves (cheating on her when she just had their baby, not understanding why she wants to work when they move to his family in Ecuador, and so on and so forth).
I was not prepared for the power of this story, the incredible bond between two sisters, their ability to love each other but know when to let go and when to hold on.Lucia and Miranda were born in New Jersey, the daughters of a Chinese American who came to this country after her husband died to begin anew.
She finds a form of love in Manny, an immigrant from Ecuador, and they return there for several years and raise the baby, Esperanza, in that bright and sunny place.
The older Miranda always looked out for her younger sister Lucia.
Initially, they are close, but after Lucia’s first breakdown, tensions begin.
It becomes a tense story in a very different way than the suspense novels I read.
This was because of the tension of waiting for Lucia to have another breakdown.
If you’re looking for a light, funny read, this is not the book for you.
If you’re looking for well-drawn characters that will stay with you long after you reach The End, I highly recommend this beautiful novel.Thanks so much to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this book.
Lucia, one of the characters in “Everything Here is Beautiful,” struggles with exactly that.
Miranda, her sister, Yonah, her husband, and later, Manny, her boyfriend and their daughter Essy, struggle with how to care for and love her, during all of her ups and downs.
“Everything Here is Beautiful” expertly explores the ideas of Love, Guilt and Obligation when it comes to everyone involved in caring for Lucia.
I was fortunate to read this with them!For Full Traveling Sister Group Reviews, please see Brenda and Norma’s Brilliant Blog: https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....Thank you to Edelweiss, Penguin Publishing Group and Mira T.
The girls have a close relationship as they grow up, but Lucia begins to exhibit troubling symptoms of mental illness as a young adult.
The story spans decades and several continents, and we follow the sisters throughout their lives, as they deal with marriage, motherhood, jobs, moves to other countries, and, of course, mental illness.
I think the author's message was consistent throughout in exploring the effects of mental illness on an individual and their family.
While I enjoyed the book, especially the themes of family bonds and mental illness, I did think the story lagged just a bit once the setting changed to Ecuador.
This is a novel about mental illness and how it affects the people close to the person suffering from it.
Miranda and Lucia are sisters.
Miranda has always felt responsible for her younger sister Lucia, not only because she's the oldest one but also because since she was a young adult Lucia has suffered from a mental illness in the form of schizophrenia.
I found the story incredibly detailed and heartbreaking.
My favorite characters were Miranda, a compassionate sister who made many sacrifices to help Lucia; and Yonah, what an uplifting man!Overall I enjoyed the novel and recommend it to readers of contemporary fiction.
They are all a part of the fabric of this story and all stand alone in their telling.The novel spans decades, but never loses momentum and touches on various issues, but mostly it is about ‘…this ruthless illness which hijacks its young sufferers, evicts their souls while blinding them to any cognizance of their own malady…’ And it is in the sensitivity the author brings to depicting mental illness, and the helplessness family members feel in the face of it, that makes this a truly remarkable book.Someday I will tell her about you, she says.What will you say?I will tell her love is everything.She looks at me, then down at her hands.
4 sad but so very relevant starsThis was a tragic, sad novel about the closeness of family, the ravages of mental illness, and the way families of those affected deal with this illness.How do we treat, how do we react, how do we try our best to keep family together to provide the best care, the best place, the best life we can have to the people affected by mental disorders.For Lucia Bok, life is full of dreams, of aspirations, of freedom.
However, those things that make her different start to escalate into psychoses and more and more episodes appear, Lucia learns that she is suffering a mental illness.For Miranda Bok, seeing her sister, a person she loves walk down this road, is devastating.
There is a huge amount of information worked into the book about the landscape and the customs of each of these countries plus lots about the Chinese culture, as our main character and her sister began their lives there.The book revolves around Lucia and through her we meet her sister, her husband, her partner, her daughter and many of her friends and aquaintances.
The main thread of the story is Lucia's life long struggle with mental illness and how it affects her life and that of those who love her.
This is the story of Lucia and her debilitating battle living with mental illness.
Miranda is not affected by mental illness herself and her life is coming together after college seemingly fine.
***This is a book about the struggles for all involved parties as well as that of a person suffering from mental illness.
It is, in a way, a story that travels beyond the boundaries of countries and time with the consistence of the ever present mental illness that transcends the suffering to no matter where.
I found myself trying to insert myself in many of the situations and circumstances of the story and wondering how I would deal with the situations and how much a family member is responsible for a siblings life and actions.Its a book I look forward to discussing as the characters are vivid and realistic, Novels with multiple narrators can be tricky but in this case works extremely well and it is necessary to hear from all these characters in order to observe and understand.There is humour in this book and I enjoyed the read.
Multiple narrative viewpoints illuminate many sides of the suffering and devastation that follow in the wake of full blown mania, its treatment (or lack of) and consequences, as well as the love that comes under assault when the mind betrays someone you hold most dear.
“These thoughts went to the surface for years to come, the what-ifs, the whys, fueling her bleakest nightmares, unleashing the guilt and anger for all she had done or not done or tried or not tried or plain never understood––it would take its toll, test their marriage, the inexplicable eruptions, retreats, assignations of blame, minings of pasts and souls in one relentless search for meaning.Forgiveness.
That would come much later.”
It’s that real.” Nurse Bob explains her younger sister Lucia’s condition to Miranda (Jie) after Lucia has a breakdown but doesn’t want to take any medication.
The people who love Lucia learn to keep Jie’s contact details handy, and Jie is repeatedly called upon to intervene, face her sister, try to help her, and all the while, live her own life geographically far away.
(view spoiler)[For one thing, I know Lucia had spent time in South America and in Ecuador specifically as a young woman, but by the time she moved with Manny and had a baby, I didn’t think it likely that she would put up with the living conditions in the hut, let alone raise a baby there.
Everything here is beautiful: the story, the characters, the relationships, the struggles, the dreams, the losses, the love, and the honesty.
This story’s honest treatment of mental illness (and its far-reaching impact) is a staggering accomplishment.
This is a raw, real exploration of the extreme/overwhelming/haunting daily guilt that those of us who love a person afflicted with schizophrenia live with every day.
It also presents the illness from the perspective of its victim, which is, frankly, genius.
Enough great reviews exist for this book already.
A difficult read that will not be for everyone, this both broke my heart and comforted it.
It was quite the reminder that for a person suffering from mental illness, it's not that easy for them to see what others see, or to fully understand they need help or medication.
I thought it was very effective.Lucy's second husband is Manny, an undocumented Ecuadorian, and along the way I realized that there are no white people in this novel, pretty awesome.
Lucy had spent time in Latin America and at one point they move back there with their child, and I thought that was an unfairly challenging environment for her mental health but adds another interesting twist to the story.Thanks to the publisher for approving my request in NetGalley.
The character of a mentally ill woman listening to the voices in her head, in the form of serpents, was particularly amazing - I was scared!
This was a heavy read, I seem to find it very hard to choose appropriate audio reads as I only like to listen to books that already exist on my list.
The youngest, Lucia, is mentally unwell, she has extreme, episodes but when she is not ok, her big sister will always be there for her.
Lucia is flighty, passionate and extremely talented, this always ends up with everyone knowing her, wherever she goes in the world.
Before reading this, I wouldn’t have said that I had any preconceived notions about mental illness, but I guess I’ve learned something new about myself as well.
Everything Here is Beautiful explores the relationships between a mentally ill person and the people closest to them.
Her life is not a tragedy when you consider the sacrifices she makes, the ways she helps others, and most importantly, her daughter.
”But now, like this, I think love is just a romantic way of explaining selflessness.”It’s painful and raw, but also honest and enlightening.
5 Stars for Mira Lee’s beautifully written novel that chronicles the life of Lucia, a woman living with mental illness.
Lee artfully captures the profound impact of mental illness on Lucia and these characters.
This was not an easy book to read, it’s sad and haunting yet there are glimmers of hope and beauty.
Lee skillfully describes the symptoms of Lucia’s disease.
This may be the best representation of mental illness that I’ve read in fiction.
It’s hard for me to believe that this is a debut novel, Lee is an immensely talented author and I can’t wait for more from her.
Like the gorgeous butterfly on the cover, this book represents a solid and successful evolution from concept through to final execution.This novel manages to explore themes of serious mental illness, and its impact on individual and family lives, without either sacrificing complexity or resorting to sentimentality.
But in all, the many different scenes and settings, from Greenwich Village to Ecuador, and the vibrant secondary characters (especially Lucia's first husband and daughter, and the friends she makes while hospitalized) are so vividly and richly portrayed.This is, again, a completely solid and readable book, with a worthy theme, and somehow enjoyable despite the potential for bleakness.
