https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266765.Girls_in_Love
I liked this series when i was younger. Was nice to read again.
I'm really surprised by how relevant all the issues discussed in this book are! Turns out the teenage girl experience hasn't changed much in 20 years!
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Yuck yuck yuck. Puke puke puke. Full review to follow.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
I’ve always had a soft spot for Jacqueline Wilson, even though I am far too old to be reading things like this now.
I picked this up as part of my reading list challenge, and having vaguely recalled a kids TV show that was made out of this source material, I was intrigued at how the story would go.The thing about Jacqueline Wilson is that she gets right inside kids heads, and even though I am not a kid anymore, I could remember the feelings she was describing as if they were yesterday.
Aww, what a sweet book of innocence and shattered innocence. Of love and heartbreak. I felt a connection with each of the characters in this book and it was possibly one of the most important books of my early teens. If you are between 11 and 15/16 then you should read this book. A very cute read!
It was very different though.
No snog-a-thons or Dave-the-laughs, but it did hold a different quality, a more emotional, real life one.
It is about 13 year old Ellie.
Bushy haired, glasses wearing plump Ellie and the fixes she gets herslef into, one with dorky Dan...I remember watching the TV version of it when I was about 9, and thinking 'I'm going to read this when I'm a teenager'.
And I still remember the theme song and have been singing it ever scince...
Well atleast I think thats the one...
The book was very cute, and all the girls were relatable although I have to admit that Magda got on my nerves. Elly is adorably self-deprecating without it being annoying and just begging for reassurance, and Nadine may look like the token goth chick, but she's put in situations that young girls can definitely relate to. It's a mess of hormones, self-confidence issues, girltalk and sex without being tacky or scandalous or too sexed up. The tv series adaptation is also really great =D
this is a really cute and fun book that loved when i was younger . still loved it today .
I loved the 'Girls' series, I think I must have read Girls In Love a dozen times over the years.
How Wilson manages to so expertly define the thoughts of a young girl throughout the generations is nothing short of genius.Ellie lives in the shadow of her two gorgeous best friends, Nadine and Magda.
I cannot recall any other books I read as a youngster that did the same thing so well.Todays generation of young girls should enjoy the Girls series, although may identify the absence of social media in the characters actions!
leggendolo ero addirittura quasi tentata di dargli 3 stelline ma poi il finale mi ha spiazzato e deluso più del resto del libro e ciao ciao. Okay, forse è perchè non ho l'età ma la storia era carina: Ellie perde la mamma, ha due migliori amiche, una matrigna e desidera un fidanzato, come tutte le adolescenti. E vive la vita che vivono tutte le adolescenti. E' bello quando nei libri per adolescenti viene sottolineata l'importanza dell'amicizia ma questo libro mi ha delusa un sacco.
Guttegærne jenter formet meg!!!! Aaah min barndom
I think this book is really funny that all teens will enjoy.
Cost: Unknown Title:  Girls in Love Series:  Girls #1 Author:  Jacqueline Wilson Overall Review:  3 starsYou're all probably thinking, Connie?
But now, 11 years on, reading this I'm like meh, you need to control your thirst child.Seriously, this book is all about boys.
Did I have time to think of any other boys except Matthew Gray Gubler in that time?
No. That's proved by the fact that my guitar is called Reid.But reading this book did make me all nostalgic and part of me wishes that I had the DVDs of the TV show still.
Three rambuncious girls named Magda, Ella and Nadine have about one thing in common, they are all totally boy crazy!
Ella always puts herself down just because she is a little bit paranoid of her weight and face shape.
Everywhere they go, boys just have to stop and look at them!
The only boy that really loves Ella is Eggs, her annoying little brother.
A silly little 12 year old named Dan that is madly in love with Ella.
In the end, that total hunk on her street walks by Dan, Eggs and Ella with another gorgeous guy.
Dan.
I rated a book I had read in Secondary school and was given this as a recommendation.
All I will say is do not let your children read Jaqueline Wilson books.
Going by on what I remember from reading them at that young age (and I remember them quite well) Wilson manages to write about a host of topics (sex, eating disorders) in an extrememly age innapropriate way.
Sure, I should have been becoming curious about sex...no, I really shouldn't have been reading about some silly girl going for an older guy and letting him give her hickeys in the park.
I will admit that I did read this book so long ago that I can't really remember what happens in it b
Minun oli tarkoitus lukea vaan ihan vähän alkua, mutta kuinka ollakaan, luin vahingossa koko kirjan... :D Tämä menee ehdottomasti kutosten ystävyys- ja ihastusvinkkauksiin. Päähenkilönä on 13-vuotias Ellie jonka molemmat ystävät seurustelevat, joten niinpä hän väittää itsekin seurustelevansa. Hänen kirjekaverinsa Dan on vain aika erilainen kuin mitä hän on ystävilleen kertonut... Vai onko?Kirjasta oikein huokuu semmoinen hauska ja sympaattinen fiilis, mutta samalla käsitellään myös vakavampia aiheita, nimittäin Ellien Nadine-ystävän poikaystävä painostaa Nadinea seksiin ja huumeisiin. Hyvä että tuollaisesta on juttua jo näinkin nuorille suunnatussa kirjassa.Ylipäätään elämää kuvataan kirjassa oikein aidosti ja suvaitsevaisesti, mikä on aina hyvä juttu. :)
Jacqueline Wilson books are extremely popular with the 8-12 year olds at our school, and so I grabbed this book to read.
In the story, thirteen-year-old Ellie has two best friends: goth Nadine, and flirty Magda.
They goof off at school and are focused on boyfriends, and it's goth Nadine who lands an older one.
He pressures her to go further, even as Ellie is trying to find a boy of her own, and her father and step-mother begin fighting more and more.
Still an extremely popular author, and probably because the books are easy to read and have fun illustrations with snarky commentary on school, family, and teenage life.
My TV broke so the rapair man took it to fix and now I can't stop reading books.
I have read this book in 1 day and I am finally reading another book.
I really like this book because it has some fun things and it was really interesting.
The book is about 3 girls.
Ellie, Magda and Nadine.
Ellie thinks that she is unattractive and boring, and that no boy would ever be interested in her.
Magda has boyfriends all the time and Nadine is dead gorgeous and was nearly on the cover of "Spice" magasine.
I really liked the book.
This book is OK. jacqueline's kind of narrating is great but the plot is a bit too girly for me. And there's not much of problems here, just a whiney girl trying to get away from a annoying younger kid, to my opinion.Maybe this fit with those who prefers the not-too-many-action kind of girl books.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2524123.htmlA good book for teenagers - aimed more at girls than boys, with an honest story about relationships, status, hideous embarrassment and BOYS. It didn't wow me quite as much as the other books I've read by the same author, but I'm not the target audience and I'd happily get it for those who are.
One of the Teenage angst books she writes so well. This is the first in a series of three about Ellie and her best friends Magda and Nadine just going into year 7 and starting to get interested on boys. It brought back lots of memories of what it felt like to be in that difficult time when you are not an adult or a child
I used to love Jacqueline Wilson when I was a kid. And I still do! This book was so much fun and really transported me back to my teen years (the good and the bad). I loved the illustrations too. More books should have them! I have now ordered the rest of the series.
I don't understand why they all have to be so similar these sorts of books. If there is any book where the main character is fine with the way they look or whatever ad isn't jealous of their friend/s please let me know.
gawd.. i have no idea i read this.. i guess i was just really bored and waanted to now how bad it was.. it was so funnay how fake it was.. i mean a 13 girl going out wiht a 17 guy??? and then going clubbing come on!!!! ya.. courtney this is ur book.. sol gave it too me to give to u...
Review to come soon.
Only read this if you are of age. Its very innaporpriate and quite funny
Toen ik wat jonger was, was ik dol op deze boeken. Ik vind ze nu wat minder dan toen, maar zijn wel oke.
I enjoyed this book. It was fun to read. Loved the way the girls always stuck together!
As an adult the book reads very differently and I realise after reading it that it perhaps influences younger readers by unintentionally promoting the “coolness” of dodgy clothing, boyfriends, underage clubbing:drinking and various other activities that Likely do seem cool to 13 year olds but maybe we should be encouraging otherwise?
It’s really a tough call having adored these books as a teen and now raising my own little girl and overviewing now to realise that perhaps I might not allow my 13/14 year old to read them untill she is a little older?
