https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73186.The_Case_for_Christ
Rated 1 star for false advertising, poor journalism, poor investigation, poor argumentation, and poor scholarship.
At the beginning of The Case for Christ Strobel presents himself as a journalist and a former atheist/skeptic who is about to conduct a serious investigative search into whether or not Jesus is exactly what orthodox/fundamentalist Christian churches teach him to be - the God Man with miraculous powers born of a virgin to die for the sins of the world, etc., etc.
TCFC is not a book written for critical thinkers looking for an honest exploration of well-researched and well-supported scholarship and arguments concerning who Jesus was.
As with any religious book, objectivity is impossible (since religion, by loose definition, is subjective experience of that which is unproven); so here's my subjective opinion as a Christian.Non-believers If you are a non-believer, you're going to fall into one of three general groups: atheists, agnostics, and seekers (and that fourth most special group made up of all the people who just refuse to be grouped by a small-minded Christian, dammit :) ).
It also fails to acknowledge that we really just don't know, and that we tell ourselves this to try to make sense of things, not because we know for sure.Strobel also tried to address deep questions with anecdotes - one that sticks out in my mind to this day was a response to a question about how people who never heard of Jesus could be saved, and isn't it a flaw of the religion if it only applied to people who happened to live in a place where Jesus was brought to their attention?
Strobel claims to have been a serious skeptic about Jesus and to have done these interviews in the style of a serious journalist in order to decide for himself whether Christians are right.I don't believe him.
At one point the reasoning goes exactly like this:We know the New Testament is true because the early Christians who produced it were good people and so wouldn't have lied.
We know the early Christians were good people because the New Testament says so.
Alternatively, maybe you should think long and hard about the fact that people practicing apologetics for your faith consistently make errors in logic that an 8 year old could spot.
So I would say that anyone of my bent is encouraged to do the same.I felt that Mr. Strobel showed his investigative journalism chops in addressing those important aspects of Christ's identity and the reliability of the evidence of his claim as the Son of God who died for the sins of every person who ever lived, and rose again from the grave, and the areas that one might use to discount his message and the affirming power of faith in Jesus Christ as the Messiah.
The Case for Christ is a collection of interviews that retraces journalist  Lee Strobel's journey from skepticism to faith.
Not content to merely take someone's word for it, Strobel used his journalism and law training to track down and agressively interview experts on Christ and the Christian faith.
Strobel's case is both concise and compelling, but the personal testimony of some of the interviewees resonates at the personal level, giving a final human touch to a book that is engaging, challenging and moving all at the same time.
This book is quite possibly the most readable and engaging book to ever hit the field of apologetics; I recommend it to every Christian.
The book chronicles Strobel's inquisitive journey as he questions some of the most astute thinkers alive today about some of the most pressing questions a Christian can ask.
It incorporates more of Strobel's wife's journey as Lee spent years searching out the answers to the questions he had, which ultimately led to his conversion.
It's intellectually engaging and emotionally dramatic.
I could do a page by page critique of this book, but this guy did an excellent job already.Bottom Line: Strobel quotes from the Bible to prove his case.
*facepalm* If he was planning on convincing skeptics with this book, that's a fail right out of the gate.The entire book was intellectually dishonest.
Since I doubted that he would be able to convince me, I was not going to rate this book on content but instead focus on his tactics.His introduction also struck me as very revealing - why is it that those who were "atheists" and turned to religion were always at the lowest point in their lives?
He splits his book into four parts1~ Examining the Record wherein he searches out the truth behind the scriptures and testimonies of Jesus, asking every question from the point of view of the skeptic.
Trying every theory, only to find that Jesus is the point where every fact, prophesy, and testimony are fulfilled.2~ Analyzing Jesus is the section where he touches on the subject of whether Jesus fit the bill of the messiah.
(Look out siblings) “Hundreds of years before Jesus was born, prophets foretold the coming of the Messiah, ot the Anointed One, who would redeem God’s people.
It was very interesting to see the archeological and historical proof that Strobel had for the life of Jesus Christ.
However, just because there is historical or archeological evidence supporting the existence of Jesus Christ doesn't prove that he is the Son of God and the Savior of the world.
In Matthew 16: 13-17 (KJV) the Savior asks his apostles, "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" and they tell him that people have said he is John the Baptist or Elias or Jeremiah or any of the other prophets.
This book thoroughly investigates Jesus claim of being the one and only son of God. Lee Strobel took the time to seek out and question scholars who provide overwhelming evidence for Jesus as the Messiah.
I have seen several criticisms of this book that say Lee did not talk to scholars who refute Jesus life, death, and resurrection.
As a Christian, I would recommend this book to anyone and challenge people to provide proof to the contrary of Lee Strobel's investigation.
After reading this book I have started looking at his source's and their life's work.
AWESOME!The Case for Christ records Lee Strobel's attempt to "determine if there's credible evidence that Jesus of Nazareth really is the Son of God." The book consists primarily of interviews between Strobel (a former legal editor at the Chicago Tribune) and biblical scholars such as Bruce Metzger.
Each interview is based on a simple question, concerning historical evidence (for example, "Can the Biographies of Jesus Be Trusted?"), scientific evidence, ("Does Archaeology Confirm or Contradict Jesus' Biographies?"), and "psychiatric evidence" ("Was Jesus Crazy When He Claimed to Be the Son of God?").
Together, these interviews compose a case brief defending Jesus' divinity, and urging readers to reach a verdict of their own.
Very fast-paced for a book on apologetics.
I read it about 30 pages at a time, and didn't skip or skim anything until the final recap - this even though I was familiar with nearly all the material already.
An excellent apologetics primer for Christians preparing to share their faith.
I also think it would be a good gift for nonbelievers who have exhibited some open-mindedness.I always had the impression that this book grew from Strobel's personal quest to disprove Christianity.
I'm pretty sure he knows the material almost as well as they do.
If you aren't convinced by this ridiculous claim, you may as well stop reading, because there isn't a chapter that follows that isn't predicated on the assumption that the New Testament is historically accurate, even though one of Strobel's later witnesses calls this assumption into question.At this point, it hardly matters that Strobel is a thoroughly mediocre writer.If you are a curious nonbeliever investigating Christianity, don't bother reading this book.
It is refreshing to read a nonfiction book about religion where instead of trying to get a conversion out of the reader, the author is providing evidence and arguments for them to consider.
Strobel also avoids writing in a condescending tone, he writes with intelligence and eloquence that doesn’t make you feel like you’re reading a text book.
Strobel, as the narrator, establishes a sense of comradery between author and reader that makes it feel like you’re working on a detective case together.
This tone makes it an enjoyable read while still providing thought-provoking arguments.
The author interviews several conservative scholars about many of the common challenges to the Bible and Christian theology and gets their responses.
The trouble is that the author tries to pretend he is this hard hitting journalist who doesn't pull any punches and rattles his subjects with bull-dog like tenacity and...
Admit that the interview subject is right "Okay, okay, stop pummeling me with your unassailable arguments." "I now see that the weight of the evidence is overwhelming." "I couldn't argue with his rock solid arguments." blah, blah, blah.No real attempt at counter argument is made.
Their arguments were blowing in the wind.
There is NO reason to believe that Jesus was not who He was reported to be.
Although I do not know Lee Strobel, he seems to have put forth a reasonable and well researched argument.
Is it not liberals that ask us conservatives to read with an open mind?
From the sound of it, you have already made up your mind before you even opened the book.
Please be more open minded to those who disagree with your viewpoint.
My assertion is that we must be reasonable and civil with one another, no matter our beliefs.
Another book that I had high hopes for that didn't deliver.
In fact, I think I have less faith in Christ for having read this book.
Lee Strobel is a journalist who converted to Christianity from Atheism and now makes millions of dollars selling 'The Case For..XXX" books.
This book supposedly details his journey from skeptic to believer in which he interviews several different experts on topics related to Christ.
If anyone else has read or would like to read this book, I'd love to get your take on it.
I read this years back and admired its systematic and reasoned examination of questions surrounding Christ. I've read it again and loved it even more. It's thorough, direct, comprehensive, organized, and unapologetic. Would recommend to any non-Christian looking to learn more, or any Christian looking to strengthen their faith and confidence.Reread in January 2017.May 2018:Just watched the movie, The Case for Christ, made in 2017, which was an incredible representation of this book and Strobel's story. Very good script writing and production, quite unlike most sappy Christian movies nowadays. Go watch it.
I really liked this book at the time.
While I think it was helpful at the time, I find myself not needing it as much at this stage of my life.
Hopefully this is because I have moved past the need for an intellectual defense of my faith towards a discipleship under the lordship of Christ based upon who he is as seen in scripture and through the experience of Christians throughout the ages.
Ultimately, I think this is a book for Christians.
This book may be helpful for those select few.
He was and is an award winning legal journalist for the Chicago Times and has a fantastic resume/experience in journalism and law (from Harvard).So when his wife becomes a Christian and he notices a few changes to her personality (all positive changes), he seeks to complete a personal assignment on investigating the reliability of Jesus Christ as told in the bible and other secular sources.As an athiest, but one trained in legal and ethical reporting he takes this task seriously and looks up and visits the most well researched persons in Britian and US re Jesus and has no shame in asking them incrediably hard questions.
I agree with the review on the book's back cover which says-" Author Lee Strobel is an award winning journalist at The Chicago Tribune.
This is a book about a seasoned journalist who was a spiritualskeptic of one of the Biggest Stories In History - He investigates in this book the question- "Is there credible-evidence that Jesus of Nazareth really is the Son of God?
"Does evidence existfor Jesus outside the Bible?" Is there any reason to believe the resurrection was a true event?Strobel's tough,point-blank questions make this remarkable book read like a captivating, fast pacednovel.
Great book. I'm sick right now so I can't give much of a review but... Probably will give one later (and fix my review for the other book, Case For Creator...)
Ordinary people probably wouldn't like this book all that much. Too much information to digest.Some people would maybe find it intriguing. The unusual format of the information given.A few people would find it an enjoyable read. Learning more about the proof for Jesus is great.Select people would find this book life changing. Seekers, meet your evidence.Precise. Thorough. Jam-packed. Direct. Real. True.The Case for Christ.
They wouldn't be very good theologians if they admitted honestly that there is no real evidence--that it is only by faith that Christianity is validated--and so the appeal to religious authority makes this book unconvincing.
Strobel just takes on faith whatever the theologian has presented because there is also no real evidence that Strobel was a real atheist at the outset of his "spiritual journey." But that is just it--Christians seem to delight in debasing their pre-Christian ways by putting what they perceive as the worst possible label on their pre-conversion unbelief: for some it is "satanism," while others just claim to be "atheists." The whole book can be reduced to: How do we know that Jesus is Christ?
Regardless of what Strobel writes in this book, it is clear that he wanted a change in his life, and he only interviewed apologists that would grease his path to faith.
Some basic logical problems with the specious reasoning of this book:1) Strobel argues that the apostles could not have lied about the resurrection without the people of Jerusalem refuting them.
I assume most Christian apologists disregard James, because he clearly shows how people's spiritual experiences can lead them to extreme acts.
What troubles me is that Evangelicals (along with radicals in all religions) are not content to let people alone with their beliefs.
Lee Strobel used to work as a journalist for the CHICAGO TRIBUNE and was also trained as a trial lawyer--a background which he's inordinately proud of and can't help referencing nearly every other page or so, beginning with the front cover.
Many people read Strobel's writing because they assume that, as a journalist, he will approach the topic from a relatively unbiased perspective and that, because of his lawyer experience, he knows how to avoid the kind of things that would lead to a mistrial.
Anyway, Strobel is more of a glorified interviewer than an actual writer, and he doesn't really contribute much to the overall content of the book apart from introducing each of his interviewees.
When reading his accounts of these interviews, I did not feel persuaded that Strobel was being convinced of the evidence for Christianity via his investigation, but that he was already convinced prior to the interviews, and that the interviews themselves are little more than a rhetorical device.
There's nothing wrong with using rhetorical devices in apologetics, but then you shouldn't pretend it's something other than a device, and Strobel pretends it's an empirical investigation born of doubt; I think this tactic is very much going to hurt his case with atheists and agnostics who will see it (perhaps not wrongly) as a ploy and then consequently discount the very real and otherwise persuasive evidence he does present.
In this book, Strobel interviews highly credentialed scholars in various subject areas related to each of those questions/issues/topics.
Perhaps it could be better titled, "_A_ Case for Christ" or "Lee Strobel's Case for Christ," but the fact remains that the book is as advertised -- one guy's search for understanding about the earthly existence of the person of Jesus Christ.In that vein, I think this book is an excellent first look at this topic.
If you don't know where to begin on a search to understand the existence of Jesus, I think this book would help.
Maybe part of the reason is so that "we" (humanity,that is) will never be able to say, "if you'd just have given us a little longer, we'd have done it without you, we'd have gotten it right." C.S.Lewis wrote (I think it was in Mere Christianity) that in the end all people would say to God Thy will be done or if they refused God would say to them, alright your will be done." Free will is God's way, but He refuses to let us destroy ourselves, no matter how much we may insist on it.
