https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7904.Betsy_Tacy_and_Tib
Ah, the good old days back when children played outside, used their imagination, and were rarely bored!
But I do hope they have just as much fun as Betsy and Tacy and Tib, and prove to be just as adorable.
I hope my children will grow up reading good books like this.
Betsy-Tacy and Tib is a short, sweet little chapter book set at the turn of the 20th century in Minnesota, and features the three title characters and their fun antics as they meet up to play and follow where their eight-year-old minds take them.
This book shows such an idyllic childhood, even in an era before vaccination was available for diphtheria.
While my childhood experiences were significantly different, there was much familiar here.
The Everything Pudding story was fun as well.For adults who have missed this book, even if you grew up many years after Maud Hart Lovelace’s time, you’ll feel a sense of nostalgia, and any warm memories of childhood that you have are likely to be recalled.I read the original hardcover edition of Betsy-Tacy which was fun to do, but I actually really appreciated getting a later paperback edition of Betsy-Tacy and Tib mostly because of the included author’s biographical information and photos.
This is the second book in the Betsy Tacy series, and the girls, led by Betsy, continue their adventures in their small town neighborhood. They are basically good little girls, but when you get three good little girls together there is bound to be some mischief. These timeless stories written 75 years ago are still a pleasure to read today.
Basically the same as the first one, although I did appreciate the didactic feminist moment as quoted below: "Freddie, when he grows up, shall be an architect like Papa.""What about me, Papa? Will I be an architect too?" asked Tib."Nein, you will be a little housewife," said her father.Betsy and Tacy thought that was strange, for Tib had done as much as Freddie towards building the house. But it didn't matter much, for in their hearts they were sure that Tib was going to be a dancer.
This is a charming little book about three best friends in the early 1900's.
Now they are 8! Not as poignant as the first, but still a good read.
The entire series is so well-written and just plain fun that revisiting it is a treat.
Lovelace's essential voice is unchanged throughout the series, yet she writes in a tone designed to engage readers of the characters' ages especially.
My favorite part of this book is where Tib's family's "hired girl" Matilda catches them at mischief:'"The dining room looks all right now," Betsy added.
"Doesn't it, Matilda?"Matilda looked at the tidy dining room.
"Betsy loved to think up things to do, and Tacy and Tib loved to do them."This book was my introduction to the Betsy-Tacy series and I will always be grateful to my sister for introducing it to me.
I especially like this one because the girls are so naughty in it.
Update: It's always fun to discuss this one with the VSC, because we always laugh so much.
It's impossible for me to to choose my favorite of The Tomes, but I agree with our discussion leader who suggested that BTT is the funniest one in the series.Last read: 1-12-09
Hewan's review: "Infinity stars. That was the cutest thing ever! They are growing up too fast."Another great collection of adventures in Deep Valley. I loved the addition of realistic, practice Tib. The only odd bit was a chapter about the girls trying to be good Christians, as they had some awkward beliefs about God that I had to explain away to my kid, but it actually turned out quite hilarious to see their plans of piety backfire. We love these girls and their lovely little world!
You really have to be under ten the first time you read this. Like a wise woman in "You've Got Mail" said, "When you read something as a child it becomes a part of you like no other reading in your life." (not a perfect quote) but the idea is so true.
My daughter has been feeling a little under the weather, so all we have done today has been snuggles and reading! We finished this book together and I'm so glad she eally liked it! The second book in a wholesome series of sweet books about Betsy and her bestfriend Tacy. This book introduces there new friend that moved into the chocolate colored house, named Tib. Overall, fun books for little kids.
This was such a cute book!!!I'm not even kidding, I loved it so much! I am really liking this series so far! I think my favorite chapter might have been Everything Pudding XDD and the song that went along with it!! XDAlso TCKC and BHM!!! XDBut seriously, I'm loving this series :P
Time to re-read my childhood favorites!
That was about the same to the first one but a bit better....so yeah
In this book, the girls get a third friend named Tib, a cute blonde girl who had moved to Deep Valley with her family from Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
It didn't take very long for the two girls to hit it off with Tib. It quickly becomes apparent that Tib is more adventurous and free-spirited which gets Betsy and Tacy into heaps of trouble but what young girl didn't get into trouble at their age?
"Betsy Tacy and Tib" is an equally wonderful follow up to this classic series.
The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
This one takes the girls up to age 9, so a few years have passed in between installments.
I grew up in a small Midwestern town myself, and it wasn't all that idyllic...but then things were probably different fifty years before.
If you want a good "clean" read for young girls of the characters' age (7-9) it's a good choice, I guess, though rather surface compared to some of the issues dealt with in such a masterly fashion in Vol 1.
It would probably be a good choice to read aloud together.
I am going through the Betsy-Tacy books at the instance of a friend.
First, I continue to love the pictures.
Second, this second of the series goes beyond the "feelings" of childhood life so well described in the first one.
It becomes far more complicated.
I love the chapters on the The Christian Kindness Club.
I think an old fashioned reader (like me) would enjoy how it represents St. Paul's discourse in the letter to the Romans how the law gives rise to sin.
Just so for the girls.
Otherwise, the girls are growing up (viz., the fascination with Aunt Dolly and the desire to have an age with two digits).
I have no idea where I got these books, but I had the whole series -- starting from when Betsy, Tacy and Tib were in first grade, and ending with "Betsy and the World" where she's a famous journalist, and she's travelling the world alone, on a steamer ship, because she just broke off her engagement ... well, I don't want to give it all away. These books are soooo fun, and simple and innocent, but the girls are always having a great time. They really inspired me, especially to write, when I was younger.
"Three can make the planets sing." This is the opening quote for this book, a book that then goes on to prove that three need not be a crowd. These three wee girls are priceless and they belong together. And the troubles that three can imagine is much more divine! I love all that Ms. Lovelace writes as she transports me back to a time and place where I love to visit. Oh! And I adore the fact that the cat is named Lady Jane Grey!
The story is episodic with each chapter making its own plot. I enjoyed reading about the three girls' escapades and always wondered what they would do next. I would like if each girl was more distinct from the rest. Betsy is usually the one who comes up with the schemes, Tib tends to be practical, and Tacy tends to agree with Betsy and be generally sweet. But the three mains characters could still be more individualized. Cozy, entertaining reading. I'd like to read the rest of the series.
As much as I loved Betsy/Tacy I adore the fact that Tib became friends with Betsy and Tacy. She was the sweet but also was willing to be a little bit more naughty. She added a great dimension to the books.The real Tib, in later life, lived in Chicago and my Aunt was a friend of hers and that is how I fell in love with the books.
Whenever I re-read a Betsy-Tacy story the little girl that lives within me sits next to me and listens as I read. These simple, dear little books help me remember what it was like when I first began reading.
These books are just sweet and wonderful. They are a great choice for younger kids reading above grade level, but I think older kids who like historical fiction would enjoy these as well. Betsy, Tacy, and Tib's gentle adventures are funny and sweet and enjoyable.
Read this many many times. First time reading aloud to my eldest. Started in late May 2015. Daughter loved this book. She is excited about the series and I am excited she's excited. Another generation of BTT fan has begun!
3.4 starsTib, a new friend, joins Betsy and Tacy in more adventures. There is a simplicity and innocence to this series of books. I was reminded to read this series when I re-watched You’ve Got Mail and Meg Ryan mentioned the Betsy Tacy books.
This book has one of my favorite escapades: when the girls cut each other's hair.I loved this series from my childhood. They are a bit dated now, but I feel my little girl joy every time I re-read them.
Ah, the sweetness of that era. My favorite story in the book was when they cut half of each other's hair to put in a locket (way too much hair) so they would have something to remember each other by if one of them should die. Such innocence.
Reading the series with Birdy and am so excited to share my love of these books with her.
Re-read - October 2016.
My absolute favorite series growing up! I have a lot of big serious books on tap for this fall so I'm going to be frivolous in between them and re-read the Betsy-Tacy series.
