https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33676.Saving_the_World_and_Other_Extreme_Sports
I find one of the great benefits of teaching is being able to buy/read ya lit without having to justify to myself its literary merit (I'm buying it for my classroom library; I'm reading it for research).
While I enjoyed the first two Maximum Ride books (The Angel Experiment and School's Out Forever), they are certainly brain candy.
I know it's full of sugar and empty calories, but its just so addicting to read something interesting without actually having to think about it.
Unfortunately, Maximum Ride: Saving the World and other Extreme Sports lacks any substance what-so-ever.
My hands didn't want to turn the pages of the many books I own.
I write and sell these things like nobody's business." "James Patterson?" It's hard to tell without bending down and turning my head sideways.
But you can save the world another way!JAMES PATTERSON.
It's like when the Soviets were for the people and then got all the good stuff anyway.
"Look, we got the same book!" It's not all ink blots (I kept saying bunny and it was never a bunny).
HATED IT. I never hate books. This was so poorly written, such a mess of mixed up voice, bad dialog and improbably situations. A total waste of paper.
The French wanted to kill their royalty, the Germans blamed their problems on the Jews, and America is starting to villify corporations and people with money.Historically, this trend happens again and again, with the poor/middle-class demanding what the rich have--with no idea how to earn that kind of money themselves, mind you.
It's because when an author sets out to use brilliant characters to convert young minds to a current political movement, it makes it impossible to truly enjoy the story.I'm not a big fan of current environmental policy, current industry standards, landfills, waste and all that stuff, but it's not entirely the fault of corporations.
I have not read the first two but When the Wind Blows (of which this series was based on,) is one of my favourite books by James Patterson.When I heard that Patterson had written a children's novel I was surprised.
Knowing what his adult books are like, I couldn't imagine how he could write for children without being to scary.
I know most kids would love to be able to talk back to adults like that but obviously can't so it's great!Overall I enjoyed this book and recommend it to those 12 and up.
It's books like these that get kids reading.
"'Hi,' I said lamely. Unfortunately, finding out who my parents actually were had not improved my social graces by leaps and bounds. Oh, well." The quote above shows exactly why I like this book. Max is so sarcastic and I love the touch she gives to converstations. For example; the way she mocks Ter Borcht and the scientists is so funny. Loved to read those parts!When I was finished, I was so scared that this great series would be over, but thanks to Mr. Patterson, there is much more to read!I
A little less would be better in this book, to my taste.And I'm kinda sad that; (view spoiler)[Max and Fang did not even talk about their feelings, where was the romance at the end of the book?!
I know that I will get a light, fast paced, funny book full of action when I pick up one of those.Like I said; the ending made me feel like this was the last book of the series, but after some research I'm so glad it is not!
The ending is nice and well written, I like the way Fang's story and Max' story come together.
(view spoiler)[ Max and Fang.
Fang and Max share a kiss.
Once they are able to escape, Max makes a spur of the moment decision.
He believes Ari, the former enemy, whether the decision to help them escape was honest or a scam, can't be trusted.
Max believes differently.
Max and Fang both believe strongly about their opinion and can't agree.
Max, Angel, Nudge, Total, and Ari go one way.
Will Max and Fang be able to make things right?
Or will Fang and his group be too late to help save Max and her group from the dreaded whitecoats?
It's up to Max and the flock stop their sinister plan.
Like the previous books, the pace is fast and fun.
The author gives a couple of nods to Ian Flemming's James Bond, and that's pretty much the way of his villains.
In the end, like Bond, this is the villain's undoing.
We find out who Max's parents really are, and be prepared for some surprises from Ari. The book ends leaving things wide open for a sequel.
The villain gloats, Max must battle alone, great odds are faced, and the villain is beaten and it's over.
Only instead of working it into the plot, like any sane book, Max basically takes a time-out, reminds the reader you're reading a book here ("Those of you who picked up this book cold, even though it's clearly part three of a series, well, get with the program, people!"), which is like a kick upside the head in terms of getting personally involved in the plot.
But I very nearly put the book down at that initial statement, because there was no way I wanted to keep reading after that.Apparently, people are now able to get tattoos that only show up a few days before you're going to die.
There were so many plot twists in this book that I don't even know where to start.
Max and the flock are back to save the world and travel it as well.
Angel's mind altering ability comes in very handy this time around and Ari is back with a new attitude.
The School has begun eliminating the "failed" experiments and Max and her flock are on the list.
They just need to stop the Re-Evolution plan first.
The action is non-stop and Max's sarcasm keeps a smile on your face.
Old friends are revisited and new ones are made.
The whole "dividing the flock" part and lots of other parts, that right now don't pop into my mind, because I'm exhausted as hell.
One thing that actually bothered me was the fact, that Max was kinda proud of herself.
Like for example, she was talking about herself as pretty, pretty amazing, amazing Max and so on.
You aren't even half that awesome as you think, miss I-Am-The-Center-Of-Universe!I liked the part, when Angle turned into a back-stabbing little brat.
I mean, they haven't really took their parts in that story, except for cheering for Fang and Max and sometimes saying something.
Fang was awesome as usual.
Martinez and later gets caught with posse and goes back into the "school".
Meantime, Fang starts a web blog that is followed by everyone,...including L.A. gang members who offer them refudge and assist in bashing the flyboys (those who replaced the erasers).
He literally saves Max, Angel (who temporarily pretends to go to the dark side), Fang, Gasman, Iggy, and Nudge.
Ari is later discovered to be Max's half brother and Mrs. A.
Martinez was a scientist who gave Jeb her egg and was therefore Max's real mom.
Max and Fang make up and all is good again.Getting weak as the series go on.
save the world.Again like the first two books, Max is a feisty, witty and likable guide through their adventures, and yes there is some conclusion at the end, although, Patterson, rather sensibly given the success of the series has left some of the story to be told in a whole new adventure (book 4 is out next month).
Unacceptable when there are completely unnecessary scenes like the 'it was all a dream' sequence and mention of the clones for the rest of the flock, these things are not used in the plot in anyway and only serve to annoy.The only thing that saves this book is the characters of the flock, their enjoyable banter, lights up the pages and you do genuinely care about them.Just a shame about the faults, that really should have been picked up in the editing process.
Basic InfoFormat: AudioPages/Length: n/aGenre: Young Adult; Fantasy At A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Dumb love.
Cliff Hanger: EhTriggers: n/aRating: 2.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  7Plot: 5Characters: 5World Building: 5Flow:  6Series Congruity: 6Writing: 6Ending: 6Total: 5In DeptBest Part: It was short.
I expect way more from Patterson.
This whole book was mainly Fang and Max making eyes at each other.
We found Max's mom, which didn't make much sense, again, i expect more.
Fang was getting "jealous" of Ari, which um, he's her brother so stop.
This book really focused too much on Max, not enough on the flock as a whole.
Book Boyfriend: No.Best Friend Material: Angel.
This one came with quite a few shocks, particularly (view spoiler)[Ari turning good and helping them escape, the belief that the last 5 months had been fake, and the fact that Angel was bad!
(hide spoiler)] And all of that turned out to be (view spoiler)[a joke, with Max and Angel already having organised that.
(hide spoiler)] And then (view spoiler)[the kiss!
And the fact that Martinez is her actual mum, not the Director!
(hide spoiler)] But then there comes (view spoiler)[Max inviting Ari to escape with them.......
Wow Max. Also not sure how I feel about this.
Once again, this book has everything Max. Because I originally thought this was the last book in the series, I think I became specially attached to it.
Many of my favorite quotes come from this one.There's more pop-culture and "normal" references in Book 3, but they just it make it all the funnier.
:DThis is also the first book to rotate perspective more than the previous two, and for good reason (but I won't say what).
And we get our first serious hints of Fang/Max here!
Max on Valium remains one of the funniest things I've ever read in my life.
Um. When did totally unrealistic and unbelievable and STUPID plot twists become acceptable?
This book was a best seller.
HOW CAN SUCH IDIOTIC THINGS MAKE THE BEST SELLER LIST?I know, I know.
I read it too.
But in my defense, the first two books were at least bearable in terms of plot.
If I'm really honest, they weren't that wonderful, but I was caught by Max and Fang's little romance.
And Max's attitude is so fun to read.
But this book took it too far.
Don't be surprised though when I tell you that I read book four.
(who's idiotic now?)
I find it funny that after nearly a decade passed since I last devoured this series, I come on Goodreads and everyone's trashing it. Would it make me less credible if I gave this 4 stars? Should I be caring? I wanted to give this 5 stars but after reading through a few irate reviews I decided to take it down a notch. But I loved it so much when I was a kid, I had fantasies of being Max and everything. Sad that it has lost its magic now that I'm all Grown Up.
Another super fun installment of this wonderful series by James Patterson. Max and her "flock" of genetically engineered teenagers take a group of wannabe Nazi's looking to create a new master race. A guilty pleasure to be sure, but a pleasure nonetheless.
This is another fast-pace, action-packed read with just a bit less depth than I crave. Pages: 405
This series just keeps getting better and better. I just can't stop reading this series and love the authors writing.
This one was harder for me to get into.
WTF?!L'unico spunto interessante (evito di dirvelo anche se leggendo la quarta di copertina siete praticamente pieni di spoiler) Patterson l'ha bruciato senza pensarci due volte e non ha nemmeno sprecato mezza parola per dirci perché l'ha bruciato.
Chi lo sa, i misteri di Mr Patterson.La caratterizzazione dei personaggi, in questa puntata della serie, viene meno e ci ritroviamo a leggere certe battute di Max, ma non solo, che fanno venire la pelle d'oca per quanto sono brutte e pietose.
E invece sembra proprio che Patterson prenda quasi in giro il lettore non più giovane, utilizzando un linguaggio che ti fa quasi vergognare di star davvero leggendo quel libro.
I'm not sure if James Patterson had a time crunch for writing this book, but it was trash.
Max loses the use of one of her arms, then suddenly gets it back?
About that fight with Omega Boy...Max is super strong.
No. Did that whole episode with Iggy, Fang, and Gazzy at the beach have to be inserted?
No. Why were the clones of Fang, Iggy, Nudge, Gazzy, Angel, and Total even mentioned in the first place?
What made me really mad was that it was so stinkin' typical who Max's parents were.
On the upside, I really liked the title of this book.
In this third installment in the Maximum Ride series everything comes into focus.
Max and the flock have abandoned the idea of finding their parents and changed their minds.
The scientists at the School also want Max and her friends destroyed- for good.
The flock splits up and some stay in the US and the others go to Europe to eliminate the Itex corporation that the School is part of.
Will Max and friends finally destroy the School and Itex for good?
I would recommend this book to the fans of Micheal Vey and the Percy Jackson series
I've watched episodes of The Superfriends that were better plotted than this. There are three orphan reunited with long lost parents scenes in this book: and they're all for the same orphan. The mad scientists, having tired of the flying wolf children, have now built robot flying wolf children. There's a "it was all a dream" scene in the middle of the book for no reason whatsoever. Bleah.I read this on an airplane with no other options except the in-flight magazines. Which I read all of, twice, in German (which I don't even speak) before bothering to finish this.
Man, I finished this book in like just over 24 hours, and IM ON A ROLL! I loved this book so much! It made me cry, it made me laugh, and then it made me want to slam my head into the wall, because sometimes things don't turn out the way you want them to turn out, with memorable twists and turns and it just leaves you going.. UGHHH. but, I'm starting the next books right away.... That is after I get some sleep.
Have you ever stayed up late reading a series? This book will make you do that.Being the third in the series it is very action packed. But when a two of the members are fighting on there way to "save the world", the band splits.  If you liked the hunger games then this series is for you!
I thought this book was absolutely amazing, Max is as always probably one of my favorite characters out there. She's funny, sarcastic, and is completely badass. And of course I love the rest of the flock too, Gasman, Iggy, Fang, Nudge, and Angel(Though, I don't know how I feel about her). I can't wait to finish off the rest of the series now :)
*puts gun in mouth*
