https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/783173.Bones_In_London
An unusual book about a business man nicknamed 'Bones' who always comes out on top of deals, even if they appear to be going wrong.
These are a quirky set of stories based around this character, his colleague and his secretary.
The stories are not great literature, but the writing style is quirky.
An example of this regards a lamp which was sold to 'Bones' as a lamp which never goes out of this lamp it is written: 'At regular intervals the light that never went out forsook its home-loving habits and took a constitutional'

Better known as a mystery writer, Wallace, who churned out quite a lot of literature (174 novels, 24 plays!), also did a series about an exxentric London businessman named Augustus Tibbetts, nicknamed Bones, and this is one of those books.
Essentially, Bones in London is a series of loosely connected short stories, all with the same basic plot, chapter after chapter.
To be honest, I started to read it because I thought the bones in the title referred to a dead body, not a quirky, curious hero, and I'm not sure I would have read this book if I had checked what it was actually about first.
Bones and co. have temporarily given up army life and returned to England (they would return to Africa for the next book in the series Sandi The king maker.) Bones who has inherited a fortune, has started speculating and through luck more than skill manages to make the most unlikely schemes and downright cons come off in his favour. The book is very much a comedy with the silly ass Bones, who is Wallace's equivalent of Bertie Wooster, getting into all sorts of scrapes.
I enjoyed this free download to my Kindle. The hero, "Bones," reminded me in a way of Bertie Wooster (PG Wodehouse). No matter what venture Bones entered, he had a knack of getting out of trouble and actually "winning." His manner of speaking (and his manner of "spelling") amused me. This was a fun read and I have another one on my Kindle to read next.
In the general style of Wodehouse. Bones is a wildly successful financier because he is a lamb among wolves and knows it. The evil doings of the financial sharks are turned on their heads. They lose; he wins. Perfect airplane book. Nice touches with Bones love for his "typewriter" Marguerite--she of the dainty feet. (Bones is a poet, too.)
It hasn't aged very well from being written 90 years ago or perhaps just the authors style but really couldn't get Bones voice from my head as being that of Henry Blofeld due to the mention of "my dear old thing" every few sentences.
This was not at all what I expected, but I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Rather than a mystery, this is a collection of stories about a character named Bones whom to all appearances is a lovable, lucky idiot.
I love Edgar Wallace and this collection of his short stories, although a little different, was very enjoyable.
Dated but entertaining stories.
