https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781183.Diplomacy
There are two major themes that run throughout the book: that countries have survived and prospered largely when they have been practitioners of realpolitik; but also, that leaders have performed best when balancing the necessities of survival in the international system with their own domestic needs (the converse of this is when leaders understand domestic needs in a way that allows them to work effectively in international politics).
In terms of the issues Kissinger identifies in the last chapter, these problems have been explored fairly well in the pages of Foreign Affairs and International Security (see also the Cambridge Series in International Relations).
But then, rather surprisingly, as Kissinger himself becomes an actor the book becomes less interesting; his fascination with the characters of Nixon and Reagan robs him of any ability to judge their efforts objectively, and even his account of ending the Vietnam War is repetitious and oddly unenlightening.The book fails to establish its main intellectual theses which are that a) America is unique in bringing its own moral values to international diplomacy and b) that this is only successful when these are consciously married to a realist perception of what is possible.
With all of the controversy that still surrounds Kissinger's policies, that book makes me think he should have been a fine historian. Lucid and invigorating analysis of complex international relations issues.
Seeing this book brings back so many memories. I really enjoyed this book and its views on the titular diplomacy.
Като се има предвид изолационистката политика, която е водила спрямо Европа в продължение на цели векове, е по-чудно как изобщо е станала част от такъв съюз.
Не знам до колко съм си разширила кръгозора и съм си променила начина на мислене, но поне някои неща вече имат по-голям смисъл.Друго полезно за мен беше да си припомня, че политиката се прави от хора, които са подвластни на различни влияния, породени от собствените им разсъждения, философия и мироглед, от натиска на различни интереси, от образованието и възпитанието им, а много често повлияни и от страх, гордост, нерешителност, ограничени умствени възможности и какви ли не още обичайни човешки качества.
I simply do not have the knowledge to be able to manage the author's continuous stream of biases and errors, and if I did have that much knowledge what would be the point of reading the book?
This book places the birth of diplomacy in the 17th century, but is mostly concerned with the past 200 years.
The sections on pre-war Great Power diplomacy & the Versailles Treaty are strong even if it's simply impossible to tell the complete story; by the logic of Clausewitz it's just a bit odd to omit the wartime completely.
This is not the case for WWII, where the wartime summits cannot be separated from the larger origin story of the Cold War. Needless to say, with Henry Kissinger behind the pen, that from Vietnam on, the text is at its strongest.
Αυτο το βιβλίο πρέπει να το μελετήσεις, όχι απλά να το διαβασεις.
Top ten books every student of International Relations should readby Piotr PietrzakAuthor of the prospects for humanitarian intervention in Syria
A great book to help one understand real politik - if Bush the 2nd had read this and taken away its lessons, he would have realized that Afghanistan had to be finished first and Iraq would have gone nowhere.Kissinger does overplay his hand at the end - he almost becomes rigid in his application of real politik as the idealists that he preaches against. As with most things in life, the truth is somewhere between these two ideals....
Repeating a pattern from his White House books, Kissinger ignores Japan except where it concerns the country's involvement in WWII and a few pages at the end about its relationship with China.
Kissinger clearly has no interest in Japan, or the other areas mentioned, thus he makes it seems as only Europe and the U.S. matter where foreign policy is concerned.
This is unfortunate as diplomacy is more than just European, or Kissinger-involved American foreign policy, in nature.
For example, when writing about the Potsdam Conference involving Harry Truman, Winston Churchill, and Joseph Stalin on page 434: “The Potsdam Conference rapidly turned into a dialogue of the deaf.” Kissinger obviously feels most at home discussing Cold War diplomacy because he lived it.
Even if it were true, we should retain the option to use it as a threat.""Stalin was indeed a monster; but in the conduct of international relations he was the supreme realist - patient, shrewd, and implacable, the Richelieu of his period.""According to the journalistic practice of the day [FDR], the President always met with the press off-the-record, which meant that he could neither be quoted nor identified, and these rules were respected.""In American thinking foreign policy and strategy were compartmentalized into successive phases of national policy.
The first two books helped me understand just how much I don't know about European history, and about US-European relations during the WWI to mid-Cold War era.The main thesis that Kissinger pushes is that the world is best off when statesmen identify their country's national interests and act accordingly, eschewing other norms when necessary (essentially, Realism).
Kissinger's examples from US policy during the Cold War generally make bad cases for this argument.Once Kissinger moves to examples that his audience is more aware of, the emptiness of the idea of the "national interest" is laid bare.
It is a must read book about diplomacy and foreign affairs. In his book, Kissinger gives a historic overview about diplomacy that dates back to the 16th century. He discusses the different schools of foreign affairs supported with historic examples. He then continues to describe the evolution of American foreign affairs with all its strengths and weaknesses. It is one of the fundamental books in political science and it is very rich in history and diplomacy spiced up with Kissinger exceptional analytic critic.
A wonderful book. Of course the author being American himself, talked too much about USA, about Vietnam and Nixon. BUT! It is a perfect book to understand latest "Causes and effects" in history starting with Napoleon Bonaparte and ending with Boris Yeltsin. I would recommend it to each and every President, External affairs minister etc. etc.It is a practical guide in geopolitics, diplomacy, manipulation and strategy.
Starting from the 15th century and the birth of the national interest as guiding principle of France's foreign policy, and ending with the sudden collapse of the USSR and the subsequent finalisation of the Cold War, the book provides a nuanced, engaging and surprisingly coherent overview of the history and evolution of Diplomacy.Some of my favourite parts of the book were those before World War 1.
More importantly, he explains how each action influenced subsequent actions, and describes the chain of consequences.I've heard this book described as Henry Kissinger's master's thesis, that he just kept on writing.
The West ultimately ended up adopting a policy of containment, but it sounds like we blew a huge opportunity early on, which could have made things easier for us later on.If the idea of being a fly on the wall in a meeting between diplomats appeals to you, or if you'd like just enough understanding about international diplomacy to be dangerous when reading the news, read this book.
To some, it might be rather strange that a book about diplomacy does just that, but for me it did.Henry Kissinger is the (still) living embodiment of realpolitik as it was practiced by Bismarck, Disraeli and Metternich.
However, most people fail to realize that Kissinger is not a proponent of amoral international behaviour.
He is a somewhat idealistic Macchiavellian, if there is something like that and the book he's written is the closest to a comprehensive study of international power politics we're ever likely to get.
If you read this book, you'll never look at war and conflict the same way again.
This is one of the several texts we where required to read, annotate and write down additional notes and analysis for my IB 20th Century Studies class.
In addition to failing to hold my attention for even a page.
Kissinger's ideas are often rather grandiose and lacking enough facts to fully suport them.
Overall I believe that while I did learn a lot about 20th century diplomacy from an extremely biased point of view, the book could have been about half of the length and Kissinger would have been able to convoy the exact same ideas and repeated himself slightly less frequently.
This was the text for a history class of mine in high school. It was a really good text. I really enjoyed reading a book that wasn't a textbook for a history class. I felt like the history texts insulted our intelligence while a book like this allowed for more varied and interesting discussion. Reading a text like this allowed more analysis of what happened and why instead of simply memorizing things.
While I admire Henry Kissinger and his extensive background in world diplomacy, this book requires a lot from the reader. Details, names, dates and always, Henry's thoughts. I hate to start reading a book and then give up, but I almost did on this one. I'm pleased that I finally finished it, learned a lot and gained new insight into problems that The U.S. will face for decades to come. A good editor could have chopped off about 200 pages without losing the quality.
At first, I thought this book is intended to give people a general overview of modern history. However, it often lacks key information for people that don't have a thorough background in history. It is nicely written.The best aspect of this book are the annecdotes from his personal experience as a politician.
Shaman! That was a long book. A fantastic one though. Make sure you have a good solid month to get through this one. Over 300 years old diplomacy in one solid book. 836 pages. Make sure you are very steeped in European history before you tackle this Achilles of history. I cannot begin to state the amount I have learned from this single book. Now for a long nap.
Pur și simplu cea mai bună și exhaustivă carte pentru înțelegerea mecanismelor de acțiune și a modurilor de gândire din sfera geopoliticii secolului al XX-lea ( în general ) și a Războului Rece ( în special ).Dar cartea nu se mărginește doar la atât: de exemplu am găsit în paginile ei cea mai bună explicație pentru "cineva din afară" a "excepționalismului american" și a efectelor acestei optici.De asemenea expunerea din capitolele preliminare, despre nașterea "real-politik" și "pragmatismului diplomatic", aș cataloga-o de departe ca cea mai la obiect desființare a unor teorii amatoristice la mare vogă ( sau pseudo-curente epigonice, precum cel reprezentat în spațiul românesc de L.
Никога нищо няма да промени твърдото ми убеждение, че познаването на историята и политическите процеси води до натрупването на огромен интелектуален капитал, с помощта на който може да се твори много добро. С други думи - подобен тип литература учи на много полезни неща (с изключение на типично Кисинджъровото припяване за безкористното величие на Америка, в което ми е трудно да повярвам). Книгата е страхотна.
I'm giving this five stars for what it should be -- it's the most expansive, authoritative history of diplomacy and foreign relations that may have ever been written. The amount that Kissinger knows is just mind-bogglingly. There is just so much detail......and therein lies its weakness. This is a long, tedious read. I finished it, but towards the end, I just felt like I was looking at words. You'd almost need to read this two or three times, with a discussion group, to get the full effect of it.
I always wanted to read a book written by a super-villian. Turns out the guy can't write and no one cared enough to edit this repetitive work of fiction. How can you not notice two paragraphs in a row with the same first words? Only reinforces the notion that these type of people get in power by accident or by virtue of their servitude, as opposed to their aptitude. Then again, who would want Nixon's bourbon breath whispering into your ear? Basically a history of madness. DNF.
You might agree or disagree, admire or hate Henry Kissinger, but this book is a must read for anyone interested in understanding and analyzing the history of the 20th century, and understanding how a very important US politician who played a major role in shaping the world where we live in reads and interprets this history.Very easy and fun to read, and very informative.
i think this is a good book, so i want t read this book may be i can find many something important of this book.
I'm going to read it again maybe in 3 years; really worth
