https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28866.Dark_Prince
Romanticize and imagine men like Prince Mikhail Dubrinsky are sexy and possibly good life mates.They're not."But surely, Kat," you say, "you can't have too much to say about a book when you only read twenty-two pages into it."You'd better believe I do!
Narrator: Juanita ParkerLength: 12.5 hours Published by Books In Motion, December 2005How to Woo Your Life Mate by Mikhail Dubrinsky Leader of the Carpathians1. Never call her by her given name. Always call her “Little One”. It makes her feel special.2. Lurk outside her window in your animal form and admire her bum with your dark, burning eyes. You have super powers for a reason. Use them.3. Infect her dreams and mind-molest her. If she says “no” do what you want anyway. Women love it when you t
Narrator: Juanita ParkerLength: 12.5 hours Published by Books In Motion, December 2005How to Woo Your Life Mate by Mikhail Dubrinsky Leader of the Carpathians1.
He believes she is strong enough, I suppose (though this is never proven), and he plans to impregnate her with female babies who will grow up and become the life-mates of his long-lived men.
Wouldn’t a man named Mikhail Dubrinsky, having lived for hundreds of years in the Carpathian Mountains (which, I believe is supposed to be located somewhere in Europe?), have picked up a little accent in all that time?
4.5 You Are My Lifemate StarsFirst read June 2012Reread January 8, 2016Reread January 20, 2017 *Some Spoilers* Your pain was so sharp, so terrible, I couldn't ignore it. I thought you might like to talk. Death is not an answer to unhappiness. I think you know that. In any case, I'll stop if you wish it.-RavenSometimes when it's been a while since you read a book you can forget just how wonderful it is. You remember it was special, that you loved it. It stands out in your memories, but memories n
I only reason this book didn't get a full 5 stars is because even thought I like Raven a lot and even though I got that it was necessary to the plot.
Even though he comes on strong, Raven feels like she belongs with Mikhail.
I also feel like if Mikhail had told Raven everything from the start she may have made better choices."I would trust you with my life, Mikhail, vampire or no.
But what I loved more than their relationship and I loved Raven and Mikhail together was the Carpathian world.
I not only fell in love with Mikhail and Raven.
I think that if I had read the Kindle version, I probably would've enjoyed this story a lot more.
I'll be sure to sample the audiobook next time if I decide to continue this series.This story centers on Raven Whitney, a lady with psychic abilities that has gone to Romania to escape the stressors of her work.
With few females remaining, Mikhail's hunt for the killer is a top priority.This was the first book I've read about the Carpathians and I have to admit that I was a little confused at first.
Despite the fact that it was tough reading at times, I did like this story, and I got a vivid picture of what Ms. Feehan was writing about with her story.
Although, I will freely admit, it was a somewhat difficult read.The Positives*I really, really like this concept of the Carpathians.
I think Ms. Feehan has taken the vampire romance and put her own personal stamp on it.
She writes such dramatic, intense, imaginative, very romantic stories--elements that I absolutely love in a book.So, I have to say that I am glad I finally read Dark Prince.
For example, one thing that bothered me the most was the absence of what I thought was one of the more interesting obstacles mentioned at the beginning of the book, which was that up to this point, no human woman has ever been successfully converted without going insane.
From the very beginning, she seemed to be a great candidate to be introduced into the mystical lifestyle that comes with living with Carpathians (who are basically non-evil, blood-drinking, vampire hunters, by the way) because she’s been psychic since birth and has spent the past several years working with the police to track down serial killers.
In fact, it completely failed to engage my imagination or intellect in any meaningful way, leaving me pretty bored throughout nearly the entire novel.Before beginning my reading of Dark Prince, I had found the things I'd heard about the Carpathian world to be rather intriguing and thought that it would be a fun and stimulating mythology to delve into.
Typically, I like it when the hero uses endearments with the heroine, but I didn't really care for Mikhail calling Raven "little one." It reminded me too much of the way one would speak to a child, which further played into the whole idea of him being more powerful and trying to bend her to his will, and also left a bad taste in my mouth.
Muy buen inicio de saga! Si algo me gusta de estos vampiros es que no son descafeinados...
While most of them have been reasonably bad, I have not felt compelled to write a review about any of them.That said, Dark Prince being the first in the Carpathian Series was so very laughable that I find myself rising from the gloom if only to warn others who might be expecting this here book to produce some entertaining vampire high-jinks.
The Carpathians are almost-vampire inasmuch they can shape-shift, heal quickly, drink blood (need to), read your mind etc.
wow"Seriously.Of course this book had a lot of sex which is perfectly alright as long as its written reasonably well but this wasn't.
Just turn one of KA's alphas into a shapeshifting/vampire hybrid, give him immense power, and you've got it.So, we have a race of brooding shapeshifter/vampires who need females or they will turn into the bad vampires who are consumed with bloodlust and death.
I'm in!Mikhail is the prince of the hybrids.
Mikhail is all over her like a cheap suit.
I mean, I like as velvet as much as the next person.
But, this was like the George Costanza of sexual descriptions - too much velvet to stay in good taste.apparently, Mikhail agrees!Looking good, George Mikhail!
For me was this book the later on and I read about 100 pages before I decided to throw in the towel.
This book just didn’t work for me mainly because the main character Mikhail just made me mad.
I like bad boys, but I don’t like asholes and sorry Mikhail is an ashole!So if you still feel that this book is for you go ahead and read it.
Maybe I’m just picky when it comes to men in books.Thank you Piatkus for providing me with a free copy for an honest review!
This was the book that started by Carpathian addiction. Christine Feehan's "Dark Prince" was so very different from the normal romance novel back in 1999. Her Alphas could write the book on Alpha behavior and their love for their mates is the stuff of dreams. If you've never read one of her books, then I can't recommend "Dark Prince" highly enough...especially is you are a paranormal romance fan. If heroes who literally NEED their heroines and will do anything to lure, attain, and keep their heroine are the stuff of your dreams, then welcome to Nirvana.
Still it is such an interesting approach to the vampires/shifters mythology and fated mating.It made me remember that the first PNR stories about shifters were the stories about the vampires.
A vampire could transform into a bat or a wolf.It also made me remember that vampires love sleeping inside the earth.
They are supposed to be the oldest creatures alive, so their connection to earth and blood is their connection to life.I noticed that the Carpathian vampires in this series are a bit Neanderthal and the heroines are a bit like damsels in distress, but I honestly do not mind this at all.Raven stared up at his face, drinking in the strong lines and the way he looked at her with something close to adoration.
1. The book seemed to start too fast with no real background to the Carpathians OR Raven.
2. The fact there was no angst whatsoever about Mikhail changing Raven when so much had been made earlier in the book about human females going insane.
It seemed strange not to have made any issue of it at all.HOWEVER, I loved the whole premise of the Carpathian males needing their mates.
It got annoying in places but not annoying enough to put me off reading, just stopped the flow so to speak.The chemistry between Mikhail and Raven was fantastic.
Now, if you read my reviews, or take a peek at my shelves, you know that it's a rare thing indeed for me to give a one-star review, let alone not finish a book..But this one?
And then of course, all Mikhail had to do was be all like "but I'm just forcing you to bend to my every whim for your own goooooood", and she'd pout at him all prettily and give in and do whatever it was he wanted so long as he acknowledged how independent she was *beats head against the wall*Perhaps we just got off to a bad start.
From November 2014: (updates below)Holy Moly!!!
I have been a reader of romance since I was about 12 years old -- which means I have been reading romance novels for 35 years!) and this novel, plus the next one which I read as well, have gotten me so hyped up!
Suspenseful.
So freaking sexy and romantic!!!I will now probably be sequestered in my room, reading the rest of the series, for weeks to come.
This and Dark Desire are going into my re-read pile.Dark and Suspenseful Carpathian Mountains (they are REAL)Daytime ---this village is bigger than one I picture in book, but you get the idea:RAVENMikhail
I've read quite a few, although I generally prefer urban fantasy/mystery books with some romance.I had heard such good things about Christine Feehan I thought I'd give her books a try.
Unfortunately, I couldn't make myself finish this, and I did try.
Supposedly, the heroine was an independent, strong-minded woman; the hero was a tortured vampire with a healthy dose of possessiveness towards his "woman".
In reality the vampire guy was way too possessive, not to mention a machist of the highest order; which was slightly distasteful, but it would still be acceptable if the heroine actually stood up to him...
Just select an option from the ones below (contains some spoilers):A - Left the hero's house when he was disabled to spend the day in the same place as the evil villainsB - After being told that a woman is murdered, she wanders on her own in the forest and falls sleepC - Decides the hero is not for her even though he's the only man that can touch her (she's telepathic and can read minds just by touching normal people)D - After almost getting killed, she wanders the forest at night half naked and strikes a conversation with a guy she doesn't know E - Tries to sacrifice herself several times to save the hero even though everybody and their mother has told her that if she dies, he dies too.F - All of the above.Believe it or not, the answer is F: all of the above.
***2017 Summer Lovin' Reading List*** Not my cuppa tea, your mileage may vary. It does provide a unique spin on the vampire mythos. There are two forms, the virtuous Carpathian and the corrupt vampire. When a Carpathian goes bad, he or she becomes a vampire. Their problem? Hardly any Carpathian females and those who still exist seem to have only male children. Without a life-mate, the Carpathian men are eventually reduced to a state where they can't see colour, can't experience much emotion, an
When a Carpathian goes bad, he or she becomes a vampire.
Without a life-mate, the Carpathian men are eventually reduced to a state where they can't see colour, can't experience much emotion, and can hardly avoid going vamp.And that right there was my biggest issue with the whole book.
There isn't a sympathetic male character in the whole book!
(And how creepy is it that all these hundreds-of-years-old men are now standing around staring at Raven's belly, wondering when she is going to produce a girl child that they can perhaps claim as a life-mate?)My other problem?
Christine Feehan brought to life a world of never-ending twists and dramatic and breath-holding moments that will leave you pushing all of those wonderful chores aside until you have finished the book!The Dark series is centered around an immortal species, the Carpathians.
To force them into eternal damnation, a vampire.The Dark Prince is an incredible book that is filled with exceptionally brilliant characters.
Characters that rip through your body and hold you on edge.Mikhail Dubrinsky, Prince of Carpathians, has server his people for centuries.
Without their women, without lifemates to the men that endure several lifetimes of hopeless searching, more of the Carpathian men turn to darkness.
★Book Basics★  Genre : - Paranormal Romance Series : - Book 1 of The Dark Series about the Carpathian Race. Writing  - Third Person Dual POV  Main Characters : Raven Whitney, American psychic who in the past has used her talents to track down serial killers at great cost to herself. On holiday in the Carpathian Mountains to recover after tracking a particularly depraved mind.Mikhail Dubrinksy, Prince of the Carpathians, a species of immortals, who need blood to survive and cannot be out in Sunli
Centuries old, and no longer feels emotion or sees in colour, as is normal for Carpathian Males after so many centuries of living.
After centuries, they no longer feel emotion, see in colour and the lure to "turn" feel at least something in the rush of power from a kill can prove too much for some, and they become the true Vampire of legend.Mikhail Dubrinsky is the Prince of his people, centuries old, and burdened with what he sees as his failure to those people!
The very first paranormal series I ever read, and I still love it now.
I loved it! No complaints! A great way to start a series. Wonderful world building! So well written! I loved Mikhail and Raven! I think Gregori might be my favorite!
4.5 stars!! Thank you Cyndi for bringing this series to my attention.. <3
Raven may be the life mate that Mikhail thought he’d never find and she represents hope for the Carpathians.Ugh. I really hated Dark Prince and, though I tried to stick it out, I finally had to put it down after three chapters of torture.
Though we’re told she’s intelligent, she seems naively unalarmed when Mikhail says these sorts of things (which make up most of his black velvet seductive speech): * Do not disobey me in this, Raven.
I don’t like Mikhail and Raven and I don’t want to read any more about their twisted relationship.
However, having finished this book, I can honestly say that it just didn't work for me and in fact bothered me quite a bit.Normally I love having a hot and sexy guy in the story, and sometimes I wouldn't even mind him being somewhat bossy and arrogant.
Let me go...Mikhail: I'm trying to protect you from harm, little one.
while there were some actions and some elements of mystery, the book was largely about the push-and-pull relationship development between Raven and Mikhail.
Selection can be limited, and I generally have a rule that I won't listen to something that I think I'm likely to read on paper, because I miss stuff when I listen.
This book has finally convinced me to ditch that rule once and for all, and my commute will probably be more pleasant for it.It was late, I needed a new book, and this one was available, popular on the library site, and had four stars on Amazon.
I have, in my time, read romance novels and enjoyed them.
Mikhail Dubrinsky, Prince of the Carpathians, impossibly arrogant but tempered with a vulnerability that had me emotionally invested in his story.Raven Whitney, human, gifted telepath and emotionally & physically depleted from tracking the twisted mental paths of serial killers.
Raven has escaped to the Carpathian mountains to heal, unaware her life is about to change forever - she is Mikhail's lifemate, she just doesn't know it yet.Carpathians are an ancient race, gifted with immense strength, heightened senses, longevity, & they have the ability to shapeshift, control the minds of humans & command the earth & weather.
I wanna read this series but damn there's like 30 flipping books! ain't nobody got time for that!
its a DNF at 47%it didn't grip me to finish it...
Christine Feehan’s first novel, Dark Prince, was first released in 1999 and has now been re-released in a new “Author’s Cut Special Edition.” I recently had the opportunity to read it.
I often dislike alpha jerks, but I do enjoy heroines who can deflate their self-importance.Unfortunately, the book is marred by other issues, possibly because the original edition of Dark Prince was Feehan’s first novel.
(I'm not ordinarily a fan of the Baby Epilogue, but it might have gone a long way toward making the book feel "done.")I haven’t read the original edition, so I don’t know how much of this meandering quality is due to the re-addition of scenes that were cut the first time around.
