https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278262.It_Shouldn_t_Happen_to_a_Vet
It Shouldn't Happen to a Vet is the second book in the series of All Creatures Great and Small.
This was just as enjoyable as the first book and once again we are led on a delightful journey as Yorkshire vet James Herriot attends to his daily appointments.
No two days are the same when you are working with animals, but James just takes it entirely in his stride and tends to the animals the best way he knows how.Whilst on his daily routines he crosses paths with the beautiful, Helen.
This is the 2nd of James Herriot's books.
The first I just casually liked.
If you ever feel like cuddling by the fireplace with a cup of hot chocolate, but don't have a fireplace and have run out of hot chocolate, this book will suit just as well.
They are just full of stories that make me laugh.
I have to tell Brandon at least one or two each night, and he laughs too.
If you really only like fast-paced page-turners, do NOT pick up this book.
This is more like having the best storyteller ever in your living room every night.
Loved all the James Herriot books.
My parents began to read them when I was maybe 10 or so and they would laugh out loud but I was far too cool to read what my parents did until one day I had a miserable toothache/earache and to take my mind off it I began to read one of this series of books.
I too ended up laughing and simply being transported away to a different time, yet with places that seemed comfortingly familiar.
(I'm from Yorkshire originally and was living there at this time.) I wrote my first ever fan letter to anyone, to James Herriot, and he replied!
I also loved how he began to write the books kind of from a dare from his wife!
I needed a break from depressing dystopian blood and gore, so I shifted gears and went back to my tried and true: James Herriot.
Although his stories do involve nearly an equal amount of blood and gore (1930′s veterinarian style), they’re FAR more uplifting.
Now just keep your fingers crossed that an as yet undiscovered James Herriot manuscript is sitting on some dusty bookshelf somewhere waiting for just the right moment to reveal its’ animal loveliness to the world!
I am a late-comer to the Herriot books, but am utterly enchanted by the 1930's rural Yorkshire setting and the poignant, gently comic stories about the people and their animals. The old social customs are fascinating, as are the old veterinary treatments that have been replaced by modern drugs and procedures. Each vignette is a vivid glimpse into a world long gone, but full of charm and pathos. I really love these books and want to read everything the author ever wrote.
I remember reading one of the illustrated omnibus collections of James Herriot… All Creatures Great and Small. I absolutely loved it.And I loved this one too. It's just as funny as all the others, especially the terrible luck he seems to have whenever he goes out on a date with Helen.I laughed and snorted a good deal of the time, as well as gasping out: "I REMEMBER TRICKY WOO!" a few times.Lovely book.
James Herriot is delightful at any age. I've been reading him since I was in my early teens and now in my late twenties, he still makes me laugh out loud. His little world is so charming, his characters so real, I wish I could holiday there. A real treat - I recommend this to anyone who loves to read and loves to laugh.
It Shouldn't Happen to a Vet is another one of James Herriot's masterpieces of "vet humor", with stories about his weird and hilarious adventures with animals. Destined to become a non-fic classic, it's certainly a book worth reading.
A wonderful memoir from James Herriot, filled with entertaining stories of his work as a young vet in rural Yorkshire in the 1930s. Charming and well written. I read these books when I was younger and just bought three of them at a secondhand sale. I looking forward to revisiting them.
I read all these as a teenager and forgot just how great they are, perfect reading for when you're starting a new job and bumbling around making mistakes as James Herriot feels your pain and writes of his experiences with such self effacing humour you've just got to love him. Laughed my head off
Review to come!
okay okay, Nothing happened. Nothing was really exciting. Nothing was "out-of -this -world". but, it was fascinating and funny, not constantly I admit, but it was quirky and I really enjoyed it.
This book was recommended to me by Goodreads after I finished reading It's a Vet's Life. And what a treasure this turned out to be! Humour in any form is always a delight. James Herriot's veterinary adventures are a fun, light read. The writing is simple and frank, and his descriptions of the Yorkshire country and its agrarian life is so enjoyable. You can probably enjoy them more if you love animals, but I'm sure even non-animal lovers can find something to amuse themselves with in this book.
Wonderful! At a stressful time, when I can't face any of the many worthy but hard-going books n my to-read pile, this has kept me going. a blessing!
The second book of the series, once again containing beautifully detailed anecdotes. As I read I often found myself wondering whether Herriot kept a diary of his time at Skeldale house or whether he is just fabricating using his surroundings...? Well, whatever, because it makes for entertaining reading material.I'd say I marginally prefer his first book, although this one had more of a laugh-out-loud quality to it. I have hungrily begun his next one, Let Sleeping Vets Lie.
This book has so much heart and was written with a great eye for making the small details of life entertaining and absurd. I love this book and I feel it is a comfort book, something to read when life gets you down, to remind you that the best things in life are simple and free and how to take joy in the moments. James Herriot is a gifted writer.
More stories of the Dales, this time including Herriot's various attempts at courtship.A beautifully written book.
Some of the ongoing themes are his documentation of rural life in Yorkshire during a time of social upheaval, the changing veterinary profession as new technologies arose, and his own lifelong love affair with the Yorkshire Dales.
I enjoyed the accounts of the veterinary life, but I also enjoyed the reflections on how time has changed the profession and the country he grew up in.
The great amount of heart and detail in them speaks to the real James Herriot's affection for his life and vocation.My editions of these books are venerable old editions that I acquired, probably literally half a lifetime ago, at a yard sale.
It certainly makes him an endearing character and keeps me reading and enjoying his stories so much.
Because that's what this book is...a collection of short stories about his work as a vet among the farms in the Yorkshire dales.
He describes dealing with dogs, cows, pigs, and horses, but chiefly his stories are about the people he meets and the situations he finds himself involved in.
I'm not quite sure where this book fits in the "All Creatures Great and Small" series, but I very much enjoyed visiting with James and hearing more about his life and livelihood.
And of course all of these stories are funny so that he could make the book enjoyable to everyone.
The stories are not just funny though, they actually teach you a lot about being a vet.
My dad said that after this book came out getting into vet school became a ton harder because everybody wanted to be a vet.
They made a T.V. series on this book and it actually became just as if not more popular than the book, so that made even more people want to be a vet, and that is why vet school is so expensive and hard to get in to.
It shouldn't happen to a vet tells the reader of practically the memoirs of the Scottish born Yorkshire vet James Herriot.
Herriot also tells the reader about his first meetings with young female admirer and later wife, Helen Alderson.
These famous series of books were eventually made into the excellent BBC series, All creatures great and small, which starred Christopher Timothy as Herriot, Robert Hardy and Peter Davison as the Farnon brothers and firstly Carol Drinkwater and later Lynda Bellingham as Herriot's wife Helen.I enjoyed this Pan version of Herriot's tales, as I did watching the TV series, and will look forward to reading the rest of the books and rewatching the TV series.
Some of the stories are highly relatable and funny, but many of them are dated and the treatments described vary from the medieval (blood-letting) to the unknown (universal cow medicine).
The cover has a wonderful illustration from Thelwell, and its style is amusing, which is probably why this book has circulated for so long and been read by so many.I think this book would mostly appeal to an older generation, as younger readers will find it dated.
It would certainly appeal to farmers or anyone who works with animals.
This series of veterinary vignettes was a walk down memory lane.
How I used to relish the television series for an escape into the Yorkshire Dales when I was a young mother and so very busy.
Now I understand even better what James was getting at when he remarked about changing times: "Radio, television and the motorcar have carried the outside world into the most isolated places so that the simple people you used to meet on the lonely farms are rapidly becoming like people anywhere else.
This is the second volume of James Herriot's memoirs and it got me through the worst journey I've ever been on: an over-packed and thoroughly over-heated plane with the one obligatory rogue - loud and frequent - 'sneezer' sitting directly behind me whose constant sniffing I could plainly hear over the noise of the engine.
If it had not been for James Herriot, I don't think I would have made it.
What I love most about these books is that, on reading the first sentence, he magically transports me from my immediate surroundings to the rural delights of 1930s Darrowby.
No murders, no car chases, no gratuitous sex scenes. It sometimes seems hard to find a book without any of the above these days. Herriot's books are a delightful contrast. This is the second in the series of his semi-fictional reminiscences about life as a Yorkshire vet. Really, it is a collection of loosely linked anecdotes. A joy to read.
What a lovely, comforting read about the life of a young vet in small rural town. Many funny stories of the local characters, their animals and his pursuit of love.
I love this mans writing. I think I have read every word he has written. You laugh, you cry, you smile. He takes you away from a hard day. Please read some of his work.
Second half of All Creatures Great and Small. This is fabulous as always rereading the series and loving every minute of it.
Superb reading, I forgot how much I used to enjoy the Herriot stories :)
I love all his books!
