https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10883.Benjamin_Franklin
His feigned naivite, strategic avoidance of conflict and simple appearance made him the perfect man to discover electricity and promote the lightning rod; propose a union of the colonies in 1759; negotiate for the repeal of the Stamp Act; carve out a treaty with and multiple loans from France; negotiate peace with Britain; champion the Connecticut compromise for a bi-cameral legislature, one with representation based on population, the other with equal representation frome each state; and propose the complete abolition of slavery.Isaacson makes clear, and he is quite convincing, that while Franklin had his faults, he was revered in his own time, accomplished as much or more than any other Founder, and deserves to be considerd as one of America's most historically important statesman.
Franklin's personal creed was that doing good things for others was the ultimate form of religion.
An excellent start-to-finish biography, Benjamin Franklin: An American Life begins by touching on his childhood as best as it can considering the lack of material to work with.
After that, Isaacson takes the reader through a more detailed account of Franklin's early entrepreneurial life, through his many inventions, and into his later statesmen days.
The importance of his work as a diplomat, an enchanting and emotional time in Franklin's life well dramatized by Isaacson, finally struck home to me.
Benjamin Franklin provides a nice, concise, well-rounded look at a well-rounded man.
ETA: I decided to change this to four stars since I enjoyed the author's Einstein even more, and I gave that four.***********************Why do YOU want to pick up a book about Benjamin Franklin?
He has shaped the American character, given us wide ranging inventions and, yes, signed all those documents.This is not a review of who Benjamin is, for that read this book.
I am reading this book because I want to know who Benjamin Franklin was.
Reading this book, I am given much more than mere facts about Benjamin Franklin's life.I am listening to the audiobook narrated by Nelson Runger.
A so-called Founding Fathers of the United States, Benjamin Franklin is among the most influential figures of his time, whose scientific discoveries and philosophical and business ideas reverberate around the world. It is also a flesh and blood man who was instrumental in the development of what is now the most powerful nation in the world.Writer, scientist, inventor, diplomat and journalist.Isaacson shows how this incredible life beyond their own time, and how the collaboration of Franklin in documents such as the Declaration of American Independence helped shape the modern world.
The only time this book caught my attention was when I fell asleep reading it in bed and dropped it on my face. I stopped reading before I hurt myself further. This fascinating insight on page 82 was the last straw, "For the last 17 years of Deborah's life, Franklin would be away, including when she died. Nevertheless, their mutual affection, respect, and loyalty - and their sense of partnership - would endure."
More than that, it's the rare biography that can inspire smiles and even giggles--I'd mark this up to five stars if I could credit Isaacson for that--but the source of the humor is the frequent quotes from Benjamin Franklin himself.
Isaacson said in his introduction that "Benjamin Franklin is the Founding Father who winks at us" and that proved to be so--his pragmatism and humor is the keynote to his character.
Of all the Founding Fathers, the cut was sharpest with Benjamin Franklin--his own son was the King's Governor of New Jersey and chose the opposing side.
Using these themes and Isaacson's strong narrative, the reader learns so much in this one tome, all of which helps better shape the view of this most varied of the early men who shaped America.At no point did Ben Franklin make himself out to be anything other than a common man.
Isaacson presents Franklin's ideas in such a way as to elevate his stature without leaving the reader to think he was better than anyone else, something biographers of Washington, Adams, and Jefferson fail to do in their respective tomes.
Isaacson did a fair and balanced job, describing the man without whitewashing over his flaws.
This is the opposite of a dry history book.
This is real life, described in such a way that you feel like you were a part of it, and know all of the players.
When Franklin left France for the last time, toward the end of his life, there were tears in my eyes.
Thank you, Mr. Isaacson, for making this old patriot leap off the pages, and for making me know and really care for him, and for history, for the first time in my life.
An excellent biography of America's greatest statesman. As told in this litany by Isaacson, it was astonishing to learn that so many principles of our government and constitution are in whole or in part Franklin's ideas or were ideas that Franklin advocated for. I would say that the second half of this book, Franklin as the elder statesman, was as perfect a biography as I have read.
The middle third bogs down (life in England and France, the beginning of the Revolution) and the final third picks up (back in France, negotiating the peace etc) I realized while reading this that I had many preconceptions based on rumor regarding Franklin.
Yes he was flirt and loved women, but there was only one illegitimate child (not the rumored hundreds) and he (William Franklin) became the Governor of New Jersey.
Franklin totally disagreed believing that educational opportunities needed to be available to all, and based his founding of the University of Pennsylvania on those principles.
Meritocracy, hard work, frugality...were beliefs he espoused throughout his life.
However, he has not managed to create anything that pulls the reader a long - neither the "what next" plot nor the "what will he tell me next" insights.The fault of the book, then, is its subject, but how Isaacson writes about him.
Here's one particularly mundane succession: "Constitutional Ideas" (a mere 2 pages)," "Meeting Lord Howe Again (5 pages)," "To France, with Temple and Benny (4 pages)." A more satisfying approach would have traced Franklin's domestic political thought in one larger chapter, but this would violate Isaakson's chronological imperative.
The book is best when it manages to integrate larger themes with the strictly biographical details.
An abridged audio tape. America was so lucky to have men like Benjamin Franklin to start us off. I read his Autobiography as a high school student, and it inspired me to be a better person. I may read it again now. When I look at today's "conservative" movement, I am ashamed of it. It is truly a disgrace to our country. They could do well to study the lives of men like Franklin who worked hard to better himself but also to help others. He believed in good governance, in helping the poor, and--Oh the horror!--in science.
Went to the King Tut exhibit in 2007 and was equally impressed by the Ben Franklin museum - where the exhibit was shown in PA. Loved this book; learned so much - maybe I'm a nerd but it was a page turner that I looked forward to each day!
While he became a political pariah in England, the renowned Mr. Franklin enjoyed the company of very influential thinkers and scientists, such as the philosopher David Hume and the scientist Joseph Priestley – a veritable who’s who of the 18th century.So there he was, loving his life in England, enjoying the company of great men and adoring women, not eager to return to Philadelphia, and hoping for Britain to recognize colonial rights.
When she had a stroke, followed by five years of poor health, Franklin did not return to Philadelphia, even when he was advised that she did not have long to live.
I purchased it after reading the Einstein biography by Mr. Isaacson several months ago.
A bit disproportionate but given the importance of the American Revolution and all…still at times I felt it was not long enough when dealing with his science and philosophy and that it was too long when dealing with his many acquaintances and diplomatic contacts.As this is the first Ben Franklin biography I have read, I would be amiss to say that this one was the “best one”.
Well, maybe but my reading list is still a little backlogged so not in the next 6 months I am afraid.
Not that the two have a whole lot in common, but the sheer size of it reminded me of War and Peace; it felt like it was too long until after I finished it, wherein I could appreciate that the length itself was a necessary medium for expressing the shocking length of Franklin's life.
Though 85 is not altogether abnormally old, Franklin's life was subjectively twice that, full and productive as it was.
In it, Isaacson presents a number of viewpoints on Franklin and the interpretation of his life, embedded in a commentary on Franklin's role in the history and identity of the US, something that I (as a Canadian) found incredible and fascinating.
Isaacson also devoted much of the book to recounting--in great detail--Franklin's MANY flirt-tationships.
This book gave me a much broader perspective on Benjamin Franklin.
I had read his autobiography in junior high and loved it.
While I admired him, this book painted a more thorough picture of who he was, flaws and all.
He loved a good practical joke.
There are, I discovered, aspects of him that would drive me crazy, and even ones that I would never respect.
The book also explained little connections to my New England roots that I enjoyed learning about.
My overall first take home point was: Benjamin Franklin was human, just like the rest of us.
Readers searching for a readable, engaging, and page turning account of the least patrician of the Founding Fathers can search here for a very fun read through the life of Franklin.
Filled with his aphorisms and wisdom, but never glossing past his failings (his family life was very complicated to say the least), this book covers all of the great accomplishments: his publications, his entrepreneurship, his innovations, his diplomacy, his statesmanship, and finally his hidden hand behind many of the important phrases and structures in American government.
Detailed without being exhausting, I would recommend this book highly to readers of early American history and Franklin in particular.
That statement would be hard to classify as hyperbole.Ben’s story, as presented by Mr. Isaacson, is almost too fantastic and too seemingly superhuman to have happened, but the biography is supremely detailed and referenced up one side of the book’s 500+ page length, and down the other.The book, to be fair, is written on such a high reading level, that it wouldn’t be considered as a quick read by a person with less than an advanced postgraduate degree.
As I start my march through reading books about American presidents, I figured I’d start with a famous American who was never a president but was deeply involved in creating the situation where there could be American presidents.I’m a big fan of Walter Isaacson and his biographies (I’ve read many of them.) Benjamin Franklin: An American Life didn’t disappoint.
If you are worried about biography as “facts and figures over time”, that’s not the mark of a good biography and definitely not Isaacson’s approach.Being a fan of Ben Franklin, I’ve read plenty, especially as a teenager, about him.
This book was written as though the author actually knew Ben Franklin, there's a bibliography in the back of the book that's around 60 pages long, it's extraordinarily well researched!
It was written in a tone like he was Franklins best friend, and is telling us stories and tidbits from his life not just a list of accomplishments and dates.
I loved this part of it, it actually made a biography hard to put down, which I didn't know was a thing.
He developed the school system and the tax system to pay for it - as well as helped out with the first school for black children.
I cannot do justice to it here, but Isaacson explains how many of Franklin's scientific accomplishments (he coined the term "battery" for electrical storage and also came up with "positive" and "negative" charges as concepts) remain impressive and even crucial to today's scientific understandings.
He was certainly no orthodox Christian by any understanding, but neither did he die as the Deist he was famous for being in his younger days.Isaacson concludes with a gripping essay on Franklin's importance to American and even world history.
My initial impression is that the author is careful in not falling into the a trap that so many biographers often do, in that they deify their protagonist.
Isaacson takes an objective approach to Franklin and enumerates his many flaws (or at least what most would perceive as flaws when attributed to one of the American founders).
Furthermore, he is also appropriately described as having a substantial veneration for France, which in today's plotical climate is not an attribute most Americans would want to attribute to one of the leading founders.
Summarily, Isaacson's book is an excellent narrative of Franklin's life from beginning to end.
A caricature that would be instantly recognisable in The Simpsons, this biography paints a vivid portrait of the man, his times, family, morals, scientific enquiry and political journey.I have long wished to read Franklin's 'Autobiography', which doesn't seem to reside in my local library, so I picked this New York Times Bestseller.
Approaching five hundred pages, it comes with almost fifty pages of detailed Notes, a very handy alphabetic cast of characters list and a chronology from 1706 to 1790.A chess playing propagandist, whose moves snatched a king off the board and gave Lord North a rook and two pawns for change.
I absolutely loved this book.
I picked this book up in an antique store in Virginia, of all places, and it sat on my shelf for a year and a half before I got around to reading it.
I was continually amazed to learn about his life and accomplishments.
That he was America's first postmaster, our first ambassador to France, and the most famous American in the world for much of his life?
How about that he was the only person to sign all four of these: The Declaration of Independence, the American treaty with France and our peace accord with Britain, and the Constitution?
A totally comprehensive biography of Franklin, the eldest of the Founding Fathers, and how he pulled himself up from being a printer's apprentice to a merchant, diplomat, politician and scientist.
Isaacson presents a very rounded portrayal of his character in this impressive work.
A man who liked family and friends around him, yet was in England for 15 of the last 17 years of his marriage while his wife remained and died in Philadelphia.
I had not realised the extent of his fame in the latter part of his life, nor the key roles he played in the birth of the United States.
Very long book but well worth reading.
I learned so many interesting things about Franklin from reading this book, and about the early days of our country. For example, for a long time, Franklin didn't want America to declare independence. He tried very diligently to get England to change its behavior toward the colonies, and only when all those efforts failed did he become a revolutionary. What an incredible thing, to declare independence and create a country from scratch! Really enjoyed the book and the insights.
*4.5 starsCompletely charmed and thoroughly smitten.
He used his “leisure” time to lead the world in the discovery and use of electricity, invent a musical instrument (the Armonica) which became enough of an orchestral standby to warrant compositions by Beethoven and Mozart, correspond with scientists and philosophers worldwide on a huge range of subjects, write the constitution of Pennsylvania, organize fire departments, raise and lead a militia, and organize a postal service that achieved a twenty-four hour turnaround on letters between New York and Philadelphia.
Outside the family, however, Franklin was a great master at bettering lives and societies wherever he went, and not just with his clever inventions.

