https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40313.Full_Tilt
I liked this one better than the first one I have to say. I thought Jamie was a stronger female lead and the interaction between them was good enough that I could forgive the male lead for being named Maximillian Holt and I could overlook that she was a struggeling small town newspaper owner and he was a rich sexy batman type. So I guess I am saying that the writing was good enough that you can forgive the cliches.
Same as the first book. Wasn't really interested in what happened to any of the characters, the mystery seemed weak, and things just meandered on until it stopped.
From there they started a series which is really just based on Max. When we meet Max in the first book, he is 16, he's a child genius, he has been out of HIgh school for 4 years and has been kicked out of several universities.
Now, 20 years later, he is a gazillionaire, and he is like a Tony Stark (Ironman), with Knight Rider's car only cooler.In any case, Max blows in to town to help his brother-in-law, Frankie with his campaign to become mayor.
The town seems to be full of corruption and Frankie and Max try to sniff it out.
I always love Janet Evanovich's books. I read some and then also get her audiobooks. For this book, I got the audio version. Lorelei King is amazing at telling the stories and holds your attention throughout. I realize that once I get to the place I am going, I usually sit in the parking lot for at least 5-10 minutes longer than needed in order to continue listening to the books.
The story takes place in Beaumont, South Carolina that has a small town newspaper owned by Jamie Swift who is engaged to a wealthy socialite's son, attorney Phillip Standish - that is until the mysterious Maximillian Holt comes to town.
Max Holt was a character in the previous book in the series, Full House when he was 16 yrs.
Jamie's best friend Deedee is engaged to former wrestler Frankie Fontana who is now running for mayor and investigating town corruption.
Things get lively when Max becomes the target for assassins and he takes Jamie on a wild ride.
It was good seeing what happened with Max and Deedee. There were almost too many bad guys in this book that made it a bit confusing, but not complex. Felt Jamie was transformed a bit too quickly to fit into future books. Not bad, but had this series been my first experience with Evanovich I probably wouldn't have continued onto the Plum series.
I made it through Full House only because I remembered only having mildly liked it back then, but I'd loved this one, and it's making me cringe so hard now.
Why?1) The writing2) Max has an ex-wife named Bunny and a fear of commitment.3) He programmed his fancy batmobile car computer to have a sexy female voice and named the computer Muffin, even though the computer hates this name.4) He decided to romantically pursue the editor of a newspaper he is financially backing, which is deeply uncomfortable.5) He decided to pursue Jamie despite the fact that she is engaged.6) Max invites Jamie out for burgers, and she hesitantly agrees.
Not that I don't want a car with AI like Muffin; it just seemed a bit over the top.One takeaway from this book: proper use of trouper versus trooper.
Weak characters, obvious storyline, nothing to grab the reader and draw her in.Well, after browsing other reviews of this book and seeing multiple mentions that #2 was superior to #1, I doubt I'll go read #1 of this series...even "as good as #1" might turn me off reading #1, as this one wasn't fabulous.
Full Tilt was very fun, sort of like Knight Rider for written for women.
The main star of the novel is a sweet car with a mega-powerful computer.
The actual main characters, Jamie and Max, share a thick romantic tension felt throughout the book.While I enjoyed the book a lot, I have some complaints as well.
Evanovich and Hughes described Max and Frankie as both brothers-in-law and cousins at different points of the book, While not effecting the story, it was a distracting typo that made me think Max's sister had married her own cousin more than once.The good more than out-weighted the bad in Full Tilt.
This one is about Max and Jamie.
He promises to look into possible corruption, and that's when the trouble starts.
Max investigates, and brings Jamie along with him.
He uses Muffin to help him .
"Who's Muffin?" Jamie wants to know.
Well it turns out that Muffin is Max's car computer!
As she searches databases and breaks through firewalls, Max and Jamie race here and there looking for clues all over town and Frankie keeps hiring more security guards.
All makes for another fun and fast-paced adventure!I look forward to #3!
I can't even put this book into my romance shelf because I don't consider it a romance. The two main characters I was pulling for didn't even get together in the end. Which bummed me out. That was what kept me going through this whole ridiculous plot, the idea that Max and Jaime would get together in the end. Imagine my disappointment when it didn't happen. Perhaps it continues on in the next book, but I really didn't like this plot enough to find out.
ridiculous and poorly written
Love these books! I really want a car like Muffy. So cool!
Co-written with another author. Not nearly as good as Evanovich by herself writing about Stephanie Plum.
As with all Janet Evanovich I've read thus far, I really enjoyed this book. It was fun and action filled with a nice little romance thrown in.
I have fond memories of my father listening to this book.
That being said, this is the first time that I've actually listened to the audio book start to finish.
Heck the bad guys had more story than those two.The story was funny and light.
It didn't have a fluid line, but given the bad guy of the story it would have been odder if it made complete logical sense.
The audio book does have weird musical transitions, but Lorelei King was excellent as always.
I really enjoyed this book and would recommend it for a light read.
Full Tilt has the same quirkiness as Full House (with some of the same characters, albeit in a different setting) & Stephanie Plum.
The shenanigans are not so outlandish as multiple car explosions, like I've read some readers of Evanovich grow tired of in Plum.
Disclaimer: Full House does not NEED to be read first, but I recommend reading it to better understand certain characters of Full Tilt.
Overall, a very entertaining book that falls right into what I hope for and expect from Evanovich, even great with co-writer Charlotte Hughes.

if you've ever wanted a series to jump so far forward your mind was completely blown this series is for you.
It never really tells us what year it is or how long it's been since we've met some of the characters but you know it's at least been 15 years.
I'm not a huge fan of the author skipping so much time.
Plus she never mentioned the main characters from book 1.
it was okay, but it seems like the author wanted to write an action series instead of a romance.
Though not my favorite Evanovich series, still worth reading. Of course, Stephanie Plum series is number one of all and really quite wonderful. Diesel and Lizzie are also wonderful, just not as many yet. This series, the Full series, is fluff and attempt. I feel as though they are early works and she has improved very much with the Plum series. I don't know when what was written, it is just the impression I have. I still wouldn't miss reading the Full series. READ in ORDER.
It is a "no brainer" book. I had the audio version, which I think made it rather amusing. Max Holt has a highly modified car with a computer called "Muffin". She talks to him, has a personality, shows emotion and a voice like Marilyn Munro. Jamie is the owner of a struggling country town newspaper. She doesn't know that Max is her silent partner. Max can be egotistical and a bit sleazy but you can't help but like him. It's an amusing jaunt!
A very fun romance book. The narrator does voices (a couple of them are a bit hard to listen to-Didi especially) for the different characters and the story moves along quite quickly. Full of action and funny old references to technology that probably isn't as exciting today (one of the main characters could send faxes from his car!). I will definitely look for the next in this series. Fun and just the distraction I needed. :)
Millionaire playboy and Tony Stark-esque genius Max Holt arrives into small town South Carolina to investigate threats made against his brother in law and also save the local newspaper. This is a lazily written book and I can’t believe the creator of Stephanie Plum had anything to do with it. The causal sexism is reminiscent of a made-for-TV 80s rom-com, the characters are flat and the story is boring. Why two stars? It was well structured and fast paced. That’s all.
I don't think there is any way I could be objective. Everything Janet Evanovich writes is so good. This is an older book but it is just as good as every book of hers I've read. So, as usual, glowing recommendations from me. A fun and awesome read. When I grow up I want to write like Janet Evanovich. :)
Easy, light reading which doesn't merit too much analysis. The characters are not uniformly well drawn but the farcical storyline is solid enough to hold the reader's attention. Recommended if you want a book to cheer you up but not make you think too deeply. And special mention of the reader, Lorelei King, who is really very good indeed.
I did enjoy this book. It is interesting and keeps your attention. the characters are unique individuals. I love "Muffin" the high tech car.I listened to the audio book and Lorelei King is amazing as usual.There is a sex scene and some moderate language.
Jamie Swift runs the local (failing) newspaper. Millionaire and playboy Max Holt comes to town to support his brother-in-law's mayoral race. Corruption and a murder plot ensue but you can call the mastermind the minute you met the character
Like a trite made for TV movie.
I have read some great psychological thrillers so was kind of in the mood for a funny [Author: Janet Evanovich] novel. Yikes disappointed .. this didn’t work for me.
