https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1835997.The_Valley_of_Silent_Men
An old friend of a book. :) This is one of Curwood’s best, an outdoors romance with a strong hero and a warm-hearted, brave heroine. One of his tales of the Three Rivers country.
He thinks he's dying, so confesses to having murdered someone or other so as to get the guy the Mounties had fingered, Sandy McGregor, set free.
An amazingly beautiful young woman visits Kent, briefly, and he is immediately smitten by her long raven tresses and her violet-flamed eyes.
But...the ravishing young woman, Marette Radisson, comes to the jail and frees him.
The silly, self-indulgent romantic fantasies of the main character are appalling.
But, back in the dark ages, I was attracted to the works of James Oliver Curwood, chuckling at the rampant sexism and self-indulgent romantic fantasies.
An interesting read.
As a whole I really liked the story.
Dissecting the pieces it sometimes gets frustrating because of all the description and extra drama and the thin string that the author sometimes teeters us on to get to the end but overall 4 out of 5 stars because of the story.
I'd recommend this to someone that staying in a log cabin over the weekend with nothing to do and it's raining outside.
Or as something to read here and there before bed.
I genuinely was excited to hear (I got the audio version) the story each night before bed.
A great story of the northI love stories of the northwest had great characters plenty of descriptive scenes and a beautiful ending will read more his books.
But they are always exciting, full of mystery, danger, daring, fighting, romance, and loyal hearts.The Valley of Silent Men opens with a deathbed confession by a North Canadian police officer to a murder that an innocent man is about to hang for.
Intrigue, loyal friends helping each other out in ingenious ways, a fight for your life through the horrifying, death-dealing, boulder strewn mighty rapids, and of course, the sweet, mushy romance.I read this novel as a free audio download from LibriVox.org.
Kind of a disappointment. There was too much "sensational" romance in it for me, even though the plot line was interesting. Maybe the next one will be better.:)
A good read that kept my interest the whole time. I think the romance gets a bit gushy at times, but I enjoyed the adventure, mystery and style in which Curwood writes. Even though I was able to guess what would happen a few times, I would read another one of his books.
Another great book by James Oliver Curwood.
Too romantic for my taste. And so much unnecessary drama.
