https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208966.Psychoanalysis_and_the_Unconscious_and_Fantasia_of_the_Unconscious
It began with reading a book by Geoff Dyer Out of Sheer Rage: Wrestling With D.H. Lawrence and went on to daily morning meditations with four to six pages of this book of the unconscious and four to six pages of his triple travelogue, D.
But this particular book was of most importance to me in my study of Lawrence and it has proven, for the most part, a disappointment.
The so-called facts of Lawrence's ideas of the unconscious were for the most part discarded by me.
On the other hand his Selected Letters depict a very serious man, thoughtful and well-read.
Wouldn't mind revisiting
Read this first essay as a stand alone book, "psychoanalysis and the unconscious." It was a different edition than what is shown here. I was pleasantly surprised with his nonfiction writing, although one should know what to expect as far as content and prose balance in order to avoid needless disappointment. It's beautifully written and a nice break from some of the stale texts from the early 20th century on psychoanalysis.
I was looking forward to reading this book and yes I really liked the Foreword and Introduction but from then on I was lost. I don't think it was so much the subject matter but his way of going off on tangents too often which seemed to get under my skin. I found myself skipping and speed reading so although I did reach the end I've marked it as unable to finish. Maybe I'll try again some other time.
Me niego a ponerle una puntuación, porque el viaje emocional que en este libro se produce - de las lágrimas, por reir, a las lágrimas por carcajada - poco tiene que ver con el propósito original de esta obra.
Para partirse la caja y lo que haga falta, porque si a Freud se le fue la pinza en algunos puntos - o todos - este tiene también sus cositas.
Aunque igualmente se entreven puntos que, pese a no estar del todo acertados en su explicación, la idea subyacente mola.Vale, creo que me ha gustado.
"L'odio non è, in verità, il contrario dell'amore. La vera forza contraria all'amore è l'individualismo." Vale la pena leggerlo solo per questa frase.
