https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1857440.John_Dies_at_the_End
I really loved this book. I didn't know anything going into it, other than that it was weird, so that's all I'll give you.I think it's worth your time.
VERY HIP... VERY BIZARRO... VERY CREEPY... AND VERY, VERY (EVEN BRILLIANTLY) FUNNY...IN A CRUDE, JUVENILE WAY...I read a lot... I read everyday and go through a number of books every week. Reading as much as I do, I get a real jolly on when I come across a book like this because it is so different from the usual fare. I'm not sure I can adequately describe the book, but the phrase that seems most apt is "brilliantly stupid"…with "surreal,” "incredibly funny" and "dude that’s gross" close behind.
Reading as much as I do, I get a real jolly on when I come across a book like this because it is so different from the usual fare.
My advice for this book is to be like John and David and just run with it.
In summary, this book is wonderful and strange, has a lot of juvenile humor, a couple of great main characters, and an original story in both plot and tone that I thought was brilliant…again is a stupid sorta way.
Aiming said dog's hind end at bad guy when he has burrito gut.Why Hitchhiker's works: white mice running experiments on the human race and threatening to carve up Arthur's brain.Why John doesn't: scorpion-tailed wig-wearing monsters stinging people.Why Hitchhiker's works: one ominous old man who looks a lot like a Biblical God, who creates fjords and completely fails at intimidation.Why John doesn't: numerous old and wrinkly men covered from the chest up, so the narrator can muse on sagging nether regions and greying pubic hair.There are certainly laugh-worthy and smart pieces.
i'm sad to admit it was my ex-boyfriend's favorite book, so i read it to placate him.
it took me all of about five minutes to get sick of the author's trite internet-meme-style wannabe-funny bullshit, which is sad because i believe he is the editor of cracked.com (where the writing, though sub-par at times, at least typically makes sense and is somewhat enjoyable to read).
i 100% don't understand its cult internet following...
it's most likely comprised of people who don't fucking read anything but born-digital internet slop on forums and pseudo-journalistic and/or fan-fiction sites.
Just yesterday my manager was talking to my coworkers and I about her new job at Whole Foods, explaining what she would be doing (which is working behind the specialty cheese counter) and she spoke this little gem that slipped passed everyone's attention but mine: "...basically I'll be cutting the cheese all day." I slapped my hand to my mouth and trying to hide my giggles only made them come even more fitfully.I'm laughing right now just thinking about it!That's not really an important point, but I am a big fan of dick and fart jokes in all facets of life, and this books' cup runneth over with them, much to my enjoyment.
But this is a great story that may not have worked in the hands of any other author.My most amazing cousin Danielle has been asking me to read this book for about a year now, and I'm really glad I finally picked it up.
Lookin' at you Rowling.One other thing I didn't love about this book was it's use of offensive language.
I wanted to add this as more of a caution for others because truthfully there's a ton of offensive stuff in this book, but the language in particular made me grit my teeth a couple of times.
John Dies at the End is a little bit like that game.Now picture Howard Philip Lovecraft and Robert E.
Howard playing this game around a campfire after a crazy party.
Now picture Howard Philip Lovecraft and Robert E.
Howard smoking pot and drinking cheap booze as they play the game.
Really, really, really, wanted to like it.
Recommended to readers who still laugh at the jokes they thought were funny when they were twelve.
And for anyone who thought Cabin In the Woods was one of the best movies of the year.As for the title...(view spoiler)[The cake is a lie (hide spoiler)]
Juvenile humor was only a feature of this novel, not a bug.
That being said, it was a light-hearted frolic in the woods of shit-narnia, and I felt like getting a tattoo of the Pi symbol on my toe.
Strangely enough, I agreed with the idea of the last dead guy that first-person shooter games are training us for something...
better game-playing?
This is a Fun Book, ya'll, even if I was expecting something SCARY.
Not scary, but quite imaginative with more plot holes than a termite could cope with.
:)But like I said, that's a feature, not a bug.
The Bugs!
The Bugs!
Finally it stood fully upright, looking like the mascot for a butcher shop whose profits went entirely to support the owner’s acid habit.”The above quote from the prologue sets the tone very nicely for John Dies at the End. It really is a wild ride of a book.
A couple of weeks ago Amazon offered the e-book for a limited time at USD 2.76 so I was quite happy to snap it up.John Dies at the End is more about David Wong—the character, not the author*—than it is about John.
"This stopped me. The cops called us? What, they got a ghost they want us to check out? Like we're fucking Scooby-Doo?" Premise: David Wong and his friend John are kind of ghost-busters, they see things that others can't. This is because of a drug that they have consumed which is named soya-sauce for the lack of a better name and it does look a bit like that (apparently). I liked it at the start. I really did. The jokes, the way the horror and humor were combined made me keep on turning the pag
What, they got a ghost they want us to check out?
I liked it at the start.
I thought we are done and it would have been a good ending but then the author decidedThe Part 2 of the book commenced.
It started getting frustrating, the jokes got old, the action scene started getting dis-interesting.
And finally when I thought this book is going to get over...We started with the Part 3!!.
I had completed around 60% of the book and did not want to abandon this.
I also really wanted to know how the author is going to wrap up this trainwreck of a story.
Telling a Lovecraftian / Ghostbusters tale, at best it is fun and well crafted, at worst it devolves into a prolonged fart joke.Interestingly, this began as a web serial back in 2001 with tens of thousands of fans enjoying the snark for free before it was finally all put together in a paperback in 2007.
The online versions were removed in 2008.Like a ten-minute Saturday Night Live skit stretched out to make a two-hour movie, much of the laugh out loud hilarity of the first 50 pages are diluted by the end.
These islands of clarity and sober introspection keep this from flying off the pages into a sophomoric mess.Still fun and overall an enjoyable read.
**MILD SPOILERS IN THE FORM OF DIRECT QUOTES WHICH DON'T REALLY TELL YOU ANYTHING ABOUT THE STORY**5 REASONS THIS MAY BE THE BEST BOOK YOU'LL EVER READ#5.
But the number of GR reviews for this book which contain the words "juvenile humour" and then proceed to dismiss the book's worth on that basis is just ridiculous.
The Dude Can WRITEA good writer identifies the inconsistencies in his story and goes back to correct them.
It Brings The LovecraftDavid Wong has earned the Lovecraft comparisons that are frequently found in his book reviews.
Well, that would be spoilery.But I will say that it definitely got a bit more cohesive at the end but, overall, I think it could've been tighter and less rambly and while I did sort of generally like it, overall, I still feel no real compulsion to get back into it and I doubt I'd actively seek out the next book that is, apparently, in the making.I might see the movie, though.
The weirdness of this book can be challenging to read and to make sense out of, but it is worth the effort and it rewards the persistent reader.Wong writes John Dies at the End with a Quentin Tarnatino like flair and style.
I loved the style of this book, the humor, the horror, and the pleasure of the read.
I cannot wait to read more from David Wong.
I loved Wong's style, his pacing, and his freaking weird ass imagination.
Within the first 20 pages, the reader is witness to blood, copious amounts of excrement, a flaccid - and gratuitous - penis, "invisible" spiders, a quasi-sluglike creature (in anecdotal form, but the visual is present nonetheless), a soupy concoction of greenish slime that instantly turns blood red (herein spelled "bloodred") upon human touch, the promise of sodomy with a bratwurst, etc.The inside of the book jacket warns the reader to "Stop," that "You should not have touched this book with your bare hands," and that it is "too late" to put the fucking thing down - that you're stuck reading the goddamn thing because the fucking author says that it is (ooohhh!) a scary book!
Do I even really want to?Dave and John are people to whom weird things happen, like fighting meat monsters, taking drugs called "Soy Sauce", and meeting Hair Monsters.And really, beyond that, is there even a plot to this book?
And in honor of the fact, I will be doing my review of this book in the form of most of their articles: A List.6 Reasons Why This Book Makes No Sense to Me and Why I Am Probably a Robot in Disguise1.
I have tried to read these sorts of humor books in the past and failed.
Simply put, I have never laughed harder at a horror book.
This is less an attempt by "Wong" to write horror so much as it is for him to hone his humor chops on a genre that's been whipped to death by too much seriousness.
It's appropriately gross, rolls out misadventure after misadventure, and ultimately satisfies on multiple levels.
If you're into horror, you'll likely find it pretty smart.
I don't know if I'd recommend it to anyone who was firmly horror or firmly not horror.
I'd save that recommendation for people who are a little more flexible in taste.
JOHN DIES AT THE END, by David Wong is a book that genuinely has me at a loss for words! There's no question that this classifies as "bizarro" fiction, but other than that . . . I found it quite different (in a good way) in the beginning, especially. The only real complaint I had was that it seemed some scenes went on unnecessarily long. (This was more evident in the second half of the novel). A very original work, but one that defies--at least MY--attempts at a comprehensive review.
Friends will try to build you up, because there's no easy (or friendly) way for them to say, "Maybe storytelling isn't for you, you know?
"There's nothing new under the sun" is a lie creative people (or people who identify as creative people) tell each other when they can't think of something original.
Just wanted to let those of you who are sensitive to such things know that such things happen in this book.
Then again, I think I'm only one of like six people who haven't read this book or seen the movie.
As much as there is to admire about this book, the non-stop barrage of potty humor and crudeness makes it a difficult one to recommend to people...This girl would not get past page 5 of "John Dies At The End"!After a prologue which expertly depicts the bizarre world David Wong lives in, the majority of the book is comprised of two flashback sequences that explain how Dave's life has gotten to this point.
If Harold and Kumar swapped some DNA with The Ghostbusters and were birthed by Hunter S. Thompson on a Hitchhiker's Guide through the galaxy, you might end up with something kind of close to John Dies at the End. I had ZERO expectations going in to this book. I knew nothing except what I read on the book jacket and the fact that Wil Wheaton didn't think it sucked. I ended up on a full throttle, high octane, wild, grotesque, hilarious, vulgar, long, strange journey and I'm so glad I did.
Three-quarters of the way in, I was utterly bored by all the action, and felt unconnected to the characters whose motivations and personalities seemed to be ignored in favor of more and more descriptions of walking eyeballs and sawn-off shotguns and babies that are actually made of peanut butter or so on.
The book changed entirely with the introduction of the first meaningful female character, and the focus shifted from all the horrible things (which kept happening) to some actual emotional connections and backstory for the characters.
Plus, instead of endless descriptions, we actually get more dialogue!
Reading these books back to back, I've got to ask...am I the only person left in the world who doesn't use the great English "f" word (f**k) as a common part of my vocabulary?Oh well...on to the review.Over all I like this book and I think it's well written.
There are things I liked about the novel and I think "David Wong" is a talented writer.
The book does a great job of using classic horror references (for instance I think Lovecraft will be brought to mind for any who've read his work) while mining modern strains of pop culture.I love the description of what are obviously "rods".
Retarded.'" -- David Wong, "John Dies at the End""John Dies at the End," originally published on the Internet, then self-published in book form by David Wong, and apparently being republished in September by St. Martin's Press, is kind of like "Pride and Prejudice and Zombies," but with five fewer Bennet sisters and six dozen more dick jokes.
And all those dick jokes don't make it any more respectable.Rather than having many literary influences -- or maybe I just am not well-acquainted enough with the comedy-horror genre to know what its literary influences might be -- "John"'s roots seem to lie more in Sam Raimi's movies "Evil Dead," "Evil Dead II" and "Army of Darkness." Like those films, "John" focuses on average schlubs battling evil creatures with whatever weapons they can find and pun-filled wisecracks.
I couldn't wait to get my hands on this; word-of-mouth promised a heady, hilarious horror romp.
Unfortunately, it did not live up to the hype for me.
Think Bill and Ted’s Excellent Adventure meets Ghostbusters (or depending on your frame of reference, maybe “Ghostfacers” a la Supernatural), with Lovecraftian-style monsters, a twist of Rod Serling and a dash of psychotropic drugs to really mess you up.
Sounds promising, no?
Brilliantly mad?
Genius even?
It was like "enough already!!!
C’mon!!!" Because the entire novel reads like one long, really whacked acid trip, you never know what’s going to happen next.
The entire time I read it, with its typos and its tiny font (which means the book is probably a good fifty pages longer than it actually is), unwieldy plot and more uses of the word "retarded" than a book actually ABOUT retarded people I had a hunch something was amiss.
So if you like frat boys trying to hard to be funny and the words "faggot" and "retarded" over and over, this book is for you.
It doesn't make a goddamn bit of sense and isn't nearly as funny as its author thinks it is, but all the five star reviews on Amazon and on here can't be fake, can they?A total chore to finish with zero payoff.
Stay away.
Stay far, far away.
Amazing, David Wong has created a fantastic book for the open minded.
The story is a unique breath of fresh air that will make you say "WTF?!?!?" consistently as the plot progresses.
If your in to seamless progression then this book will not appeal to you.
Just when you think you have a handle on where the story is going it slaps you up side the head and "opens you mind" a little bit more.
Add in a cup full of sarcasm, grotesque humor, bad jokes and one liners...shake it all up and...poof...you have one fantastic read.
There are few books that can cause me to laugh out loud in one paragraph, and later in the same chapter have me cringing in real fear or disgust.
I actually think that this, along with the constant use of slang and pop culture references, are what make the narrator and his friends some of the most believable characters I have encountered in a novel in some time.
Though I rarely read horror novels, and have little to compare it to in that regard, this book truly had me cringing in fear and suspense at more than one point.
HILARIOUS is probably the best word to describe this book.
The narration is funny and at times will even acknowledge how effed up the scene is- basically saying "I can't actually think how to describe this so just imagine something weird." The entire time I was reading this, the story felt very simple and as straight forward as such a wacky story can be.
When I reached the end I realised just how clever it actually was, everything that seems like random nonsense comes together really nicely to add more depth to the plot.
I loved this book so much!
When the Kindle edition went on sale a month ago, I grabbed it so I could finally get some answers.I’d believed this was a fantasy book, but it reads more like a horror story to me.
:) Most of the time, I was completely wrapped up in the story, but once in a while I would pause and think to myself, “Ok, now that’s just ridiculous.” But even though this book has a lot of crazy stuff in it, the story still felt coherent and interesting.
This is a complete story without any cliffhangers, but there were some interesting reveals near the end that I hope will be dealt with in more detail in the sequel.
