https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9222475-infernal-devices
And hey, did you know that Jeter coined that term?Remember when those fantastic adventure tales whose main goal was to tell a fast-paced story with some interesting ideas used to clock in under 250 pages and could be enjoyed in one long afternoon?
Maybe authors these days are afraid of being seen as somehow disposable or too lightweight.
Infernal Devices is a great example of swiftly-paced, lightweight entertainment.
And it almost feels like Jeter is even sending up his own traditionally enigmatic heroes.
Maybe.A version of this review is part of a larger article on Jeter posted on SHELF INFLICTED
If they are Sexy, then they are sex-crazed animals who will rip off a man's clothes as soon as look at him (this is Logic) no matter how loudly he protests the indignity and begs her to control herself, madam!
(hide spoiler)]3) The plight of said kidnapped damsels doesn't actually need to be seen or discussed anywhere in the story.
You don't even need to rescue the girls; gaining a personally satisfying moral victory over their pimps is just as good.)4) Any brown person one meets--no matter how polished and refined their dress and manners; no matter how 'friendly', 'helpful', and subservient they are--will turn out to be (view spoiler)[harboring a secret hatred of White Man, which he is willing to put aside in favor of his own animalistic need to procreate.
The Good:There were some cool ideas here, and the Victorian setting is a firm favourite of mine.
The first person voice – an extremely proper English gentleman – is very well done.The Bad:Some of the ideas are a bit childish and stupid.
Plus the characters are just unbelievably one dimensional, and their dialogue is bad.
I guess that makes them two dimensional.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:George Dower is intelligent, thoughtful and seems to get rescued from all his problems by the actions of others.
He is like Ross, only without the vast sexual experience.
thus the consideration of keeping it at 2.What I mean about being in the right frame of mind is that, for one of my status messages, I'd said that it would be better having been written as a comedy because of the absurdity of the situations the bumbling Dower kept getting himself in, and it crosses that threshold of believability after one thing after another after another after another keeps getting piled on top of the idiot.The 'feeling bad' part comes in because, reading the afterword, is mentions the humor and the absurdity as being purposeful, as a sort of homage to the over-the-top Victorian adventure stories.So I'm thinking that, maybe, if I'd read it in that light, maybe I would've found it more enjoyable and less annoying?Though I can't say my expectations were skewed going in 'cause, honestly, I didn't really know what to expect, and I usually try and let the style of writing and the seeming mood of the book come across in the writing.
This new edition of the novel attempts to capitalize on the recent popularity of steampunk fiction and well it should in my opinion.
As Jeff VanderMeer points out in the epilogue of this new edition, Jeter is not a writer of steampunk fiction.
He is a writer of dark science fiction who happened to write something now considered steampunk.
I loved how Jeter managed to convincingly portray a character in Victorian times who spoke American vernacular.
This is a must read for anyone who enjoys steampunk fiction, whether as a first foray into the genre or for avid fans.
I'm interested in how many low reviews it has: I think the problem is that people expect something great and marvelously written from the book that inaugurated such a huge cultural phenomenon as steampunk.
It's fun, silly, often ridiculous, and in no way intended to be taken too seriously, I think.
It's a juxtaposition of ideas, written very much in the tradition of Jules Verne and H.G. Wells and with a protagonist that reminds me very much of the common mental image of bumbling, unintelligent John Watson.
This was a fun early steampunk book. The character seemed to just reel from disaster to disaster with no time to adjust. It was fun.
George must repair a clockwork mechanism of his father's, but he has no skills in this area (I'm cutting to the chase, here), receives a strange coin from Brown Leather Man, is subsequently approached and then robbed by two ne'er-do-wells who are well versed in American slang, one of whom is a woman with a BOSOM (as women are wont to have) and who is determined to have the sexytimes with the main character.NOTE: Let it be noted that I here went and read the Wikipedia entry on this novel and WOW that explains a LOT.
It has many of the staples of the subgenre, from the Victorian setting to clockwork men, from time travel to not-so-mythical creatures (in this case, selkies).
It's easy to see how this wry and imaginative tale helped to set precedents for what followed.That said, I didn't really enjoy this as a reading experience, despite Jeter's always-elegant prose.
Ironically, in the eleventh hour, when the "infodump" portion of the novel connected all the dots, I discovered the underlying story was far more interesting than I'd realized.
By that time, of course, the novel was drawing to a close.I love Jeter's Morlock Night, and I'm sure I'll reread it in the future.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.George Dower's father was a watchmaker, but he didn't just make watches.
George is starting to realize that his father may have been involved in some rather shady business.K.W. Jeter's Infernal Devices: A Mad Victorian Fantasy, first published in 1987, has been reprinted by Angry Robot because of the recent resurgence of Victorian literature.
In fact, K.W. Jeter was the man who actually coined the term "Steampunk." As he explains in the forward, he meant it as a joke (referring to the term "cyberpunk") but it stuck.As promised, Infernal Devices is indeed a mad steampunk fantasy; it's filled with flying machines and other mechanical devices, Victorian moral and scientific societies, 19th century fashion and music, anachronistic technologies, and even some Lovecraftian monsters.
Next thing he knows there are burglars after the things he owns, murderers are after him, he receives a coin with an unknown saint on it, secret societies and very ugly and weird villagers are bent on killing him and that is not all.Dower's unexpected curiosity leads him to a London district nobody wants to talk about only to get him in even more trouble.
I am glad I read it finally, but the beginning definitely doesn't show what kind of story is waiting past the visit of Brown Leather Man. I really liked this book, but then again I am sort of biased when it comes to steampunk, so take this with a grain of salt.
Furthermore, there were some really silly, "out - of place" elements in this book.
At first I thought this was some kind of lovecraftian(Shadow over Innsmouth) element, but the fish people serve no real purpose to the story.
Furthermore, a mystery character "The Brown Leather Man" also ended up being a fish person, who actually aided the main character through out the story, but then at the very ending revealed that he was one of the villians, by literally popping into the scene, and saying "HA!" Then he disappeared and was never heard from again?
K W Jeter was one of the first writers of steampunk and the man who coined the term itself. Infernal Devices is an enjoyable romp written in a pastiche Victorian style with tongue firmly in cheek a lot of the time, it gently mocks it's pompous formal and stolid narrator who is put through a series of bizarre encounters featuring scenarios and characters who have since become tropes of the genre. The science and the explanation of the story events are a bit preposterous but it doesn't take itself at all seriously and that's what I really loved about it.
Jeter coined the term steampunk as a lighthearted response to the growing popularity of certain works outside of the more prevalent cyberpunk movement.Infernal Devices deals with the bumbling adventures of George Dower, the son of a brilliant watchmaker and developer of advanced automatons.
The Paganinicon, which resembles Dower in all ways except for his skill with a violin and another important tool (where lies Jeter's juvenile treatment of sexuality), enforces the fantastic and comedic tone of the novel.While Infernal Devices is a greatly entertaining read, I feel it's maybe not the best introduction to the steampunk genres.
Of course, having no mechanical abilities himself, he's having a rough go of it -- he finds it necessary to consider nearly any commission which comes his way, so when asked to repair a machine for a strange "leather skinned man", George has no choice but to attempt the project, even when it leads to his shop being burgled, a sinister hidden part of the city, and his own inevitable end at the hands of several factions who wish him dead.All of this is fast paced, and witnessing George's perpetual befuddlement is amusing.
I'd give this a 3.5 if it were possible because there is a lot to admire about this book - the first steampunk book literally (Jeter coined the term in an interview) and that fact alone is enough to get the stars rising.
Plus fish folk and puritanical movements dedicated to rubbing out anything remotely blasphemous - yes I said fish folk!
It lacks the depth of it's progeny - it's a short book compared to the steampunk offerings more recently, Hunt etc.
but I'd recommend it to fans, plus their is a foreword from Jeter and an afterword from Jeff Vandermeer.
Although short in length and not a difficult read, it just didnt work for me. Some of the dialogue and scenarios Mr Dower were involved in just seemed overly comical. Steampunk has never been my favourite genre and having heard this was considered the founder novel of its kind, I gave it a shot. There seemed to be alot of waffle.
W. Jeter:a) Jeter jokingly coined the term "steampunk" in a 1987 letter to Locus to describe "Victorian fantasies," which he predicted were going to be the next big thing (unclear whether that prediction was a joke);b) this book involves the mechanically inept son of a clockwork inventor, who has inherited dear old dead dad's London shop, full of mysterious clockwork pieces; and those clockwork pieces lead him into a clandestine war between secret societies and mad inventors;c) there is a clockwork automaton, which fits what we think of as steampunk;d) and there are human-fishmen hybrids and hints of other Lovecraftian beasties (or possibly hoaxes), which does not fit what we usually think of as steampunk (with some notable exceptions, like The Steampunk Trilogy).When I think "steampunk," I think of something very much like the formula Vandermeer gives in the afterword to this book: mad inventor + invention (steam x airship or metal person/robot) x [pseudo]Victorian setting + progressive/reactionary/neutral politics x adventure plot What's curious about this older steampunk novel how closely it fits that formula...
And this is more or less the entirety of the story--George stumbles into a situation in which he is either accused of something he didn't do, or is manipulated by someone else, and hilarity doesn't ensue.There's a bit of authorial manipulation near the end, when we learn (view spoiler)[that Sir Charles, who's been a major antagonist for most of the book, is actually one of the good guys.
Between this and George's complete wussiness, I couldn't enjoy the book, though I'm not enough turned off that I won't read any of Jeter's other books if I happen upon them.
More properly referred to as "steampunk" than sci-fi, and written in Jeter's kinetic style, it follows the hapless son of a famous victorian mechanical inventor. He's constantly mistaken for his rather more talented father, which ultimately puts him in the middle of a plot to destroy the planet (to clean things up of course) while riding it all out in a pneumatic carriage or some such.More than almost any other book I've read I'd love to see this made into a feature film.
Mr. Dower gets chased. A lot. The end.
That coin then causes him to be threatened again by some random ass woman who's only purpose is to later on be discovered as a whore runner who then wants George died because he now knows her secret.Then, George is forced to go live at some random ass dude's house because he's the only one who can protect George from the jesus freaks and anti-automaton people.
But not to eat his brain or anything like that, just to active some random bullshit box.So now, the jesus people think George is actually a mechanical bot and not human and...I just don't even know what the fuck I read.
Certamente, ler as obras de K.W. Jeter, autor responsável pela criação do próprio termo (vide carta à Revista Locus, 1987) é algo que está na lista de qualquer fã da literatura do género.
Infelizmente, em termos de estilo, história e personagens, deixa algo a desejar.A história segue George Dower, filho pouco talentoso de um cientista genial, arquétipo dos inventores vitorianos, que morre sem explicar os segredos das suas invenções, deixando ao seu filho uma loja de mecanismos de relógio.
Para os que gostam de uma boa história, este livro entretém, mas não satisfaz.
For the majority of the book, the author shoves the first-person narrator through inexplicable and astonishing events, and then crams their eventual denouement into a few pages via telling instead of showing, when other characters explain to our befuddled protagonist what was happening.For most folks, that would probably be enough to shove this down to a one- or two-star rating, but I'm more generous.
Steampunk in general doesn't deal well with this kind of parsimony, and this one is worse than most.And how can you have a Victorian England steampunk story that appears to be completely missing railroads?!?This is pretty vintage for steampunk — in fact, the author gets credit for inventing the term, however, since it was published in 1987.
Part of me thought it would be like the tripe that is most of the genre these days, but I really should have given the inventor a bit more credit.I didn't have the issue that other readers have had with the language and the confusing science.
Having read Jane Austen, the language in this book was comparatively easy, and the confusing science I just sort of went with it.
I read the whole book in one sitting because it managed to keep my attention throughout.However, I was sort of shaky on whether this book deserved four or five stars.
This book took me a little by surprise.
There were mad scientist type characters, a sex crazed thief, a strange race of fish people, a mechanical violinist with human aspirations and a lame little Jack Russell.
This book centres on the son of a genius mechanic that builds crazy contraptions while maintaining a business as a watch maker.
The son has none of his fathers flair for mechanics and gets himself embroiled in a plot to save the world from one of his fathers inventions.
Each crisis a little more amusing and exciting than the last.
È possibile unire steampunk (quello fatto bene), fantasy, horror e nefandezze umane senza creare un'opera che soddisfi solamente la vostra voglia di leggere del sano pattume senza rifletterci sopra? Sì. Possibilissimo. Procuratevi questo romanzo e poi ditemi se non vi sentite tremendamente osservati.
It’s true that the umbrella that covers steampunk these days is extraordinarily broad; no setting, physical or temporal, or literary tradition, is capable of defining the parameters for the genre, yet while reading Infernal Devices I was struck by the sense that for all of its breathtaking scope, modern steampunk seems to exist within a much more specific set of expectations than Jeter’s novel does.
It’s easy to see how steampunk evolved from Infernal Devices and other works like it, yet it’s also obvious that it was not a straight evolution; it’s not as if every aspect of this novel would be borrowed, refined, or reinvented by later authors.
That being said, I’m not sure how much I can criticize Jeter here, because this is exactly what he’s doing: he’s not attempting to emulate this style out of a misguided sense that it will sound better, but rather, he’s trying to emulate the entire experience of a nineteenth-century science-fiction novel, strange narrative and all.Moreover, George is just such an unlikable person.
This is totally intentional, again, but I still don’t necessarily enjoy watching him, if only because he seems like he’s supposed to be a sympathetic (if unlikable) protagonist.That’s why I called Infernal Devices an interesting piece of literary fiction.
You might love Infernal Devices just as a story if Verne and Wells, et al, float your boat.
The book was fine.The more I think about "Infernal Devices" and its protagonist the more I can come up with things to complain about, but in the end I still enjoyed the book.
It reminded me a of other books like "The Crying of Lot 49" or "The hitchikers guide to the galaxy" in that the main character is supposed to be an affable every-man who keeps getting bounced from one madcap set piece to the other and is never not in way over his head.
But still, the book was fine.The more I think about it the more I can find to pick at it.
