https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1158031.The_Hills_is_Lonely
I love this book. I didn't want it to end. It's cold and rainy, I'll make hot buttered oatcakes and a pot of tea.
It is one of the precursors of the A Year in Provence genre, only a hundred times better, less self-conscious, less class-conscious though less "matey," more observant, less sick-making, and completely hilarious.
On the other hand, if the person with whom you share your life and hearth is the kind of person who dislikes being read snippets aloud in bed (and who doesn't hate that), this is not the book for you.
You will more easily replace a cherished lover whom your reading of Beckwith aloud in bed has driven away than you will find a better book.
I think it was the 6th book in this collection that I read years and years ago.
I clearly enjoyed it because when I saw this boxed collection of six on a trading table I thought "Oh yes!" and immediately purchased it.My tastes obviously haven't changed over the years.
Now that's an interesting point - I wonder what the age range of GoodReads members is??) that my memory could be decidedly faulty.Anyway, I'm going to enjoy reading the rest of these.
I should have a Re-read shelf; this is my second time through this wonderful series full of unforgettable, quotable characters, set in the wild isolation of 1940's Scottish Hebrides. It's even better this time around. I class this series with: A Year In Provence, Lark Rise To Candleford, Little House on the Prairie, Under The Tuscan Sun, All Creatures Great And Small. My favorite genre of books: while I'm being thoroughly entertained, I'm learning "how they did it" - how people in a culture or time period not my own, went about their daily living.
I think goodreads needs a "tried to read and failed" button in the drop-down menu.I thought I would enjoy this, based on the other reviews here and just the look of the book, but I was unable to push on past page 90.
I tend to gravitate to this kind of memoir in which the author discovers a new location and culture and then shares the ensuing attempts to better understand the people who live there.
However this one lacked appeal for me because, even though Beckwith wrote with an intended humorous slant and claimed to love her new home and friends, her portrayal of the islanders came across as patronizing and mockingly mean-spirited.
She drew them as backward, slightly dim-witted clowns while I suspect the reality was less slap-stick ridiculous and more a matter of them being simple folk and individualists.
Not the author for me.
Written in the 50's, parts of it were a bit dated; but I enjoyed it immensely. Lillian Beckwith, a middle-aged teacher from England is ordered by her doctor to take a complete rest in the country. She find a lovely spot in the wilds of the Hebrides with Morag who lives in a primitive croft.The incidents of country life are often hilariously funny as she learns to live with little comforts of life.Found the used book online and surprisingly it was a discard from the Hertfordshire County Library, North Watford, England.
A hoot! I'm so glad my library has the whole series. Onto the next Hebrides misadventure!
Maybe another time, in another mood. I had heard great things about this suposedly insightful, funny book, but when I tried reading it I just couldn't get into it. I think part of it was that I had just finished a really good, fast-paced fiction book and the switch to expat life and daily anecdotes from 1950s Scotland seemed a bit bland. So that's my mistake, not the writer's fault.
I thought from the reviews that I would really enjoy this book. However maybe I wasn’t in the right mood as about a third of the way in I lost interest and gave up. It just felt very dated and I felt the tone of the book was rather patronizing. The locals characters described by the author seemed more like caricatures than real people.
Amusing story of living in the Hebrides but a little on the dry side.
Not exactly a memoir, the author used her own experiences to build this novel that reads like an autobiographical account of a young English woman's stay on the fictional town of Bruach, part of the Hebrides.
The chapters each hold a story of the characters who inhabit this charming town, from Morag McDugan, the landlord with whom Becky Peckwitt stays, her brother Ruari, fisherman and jack-of-many-trades Lachy, and several other characters with quirks and habits that bring enjoyment to the reader.
Becky has an adventurous spirit, which makes for much fun as she treks across the crofts and fields, tries her hand at fishing, an experience at the village cattle sale, even attending a funeral.


Fairly patronising but written with warmth and genuine affection for the subjects of the various anecdotes being recounted here.
It's a mess of a book that shouldn't work - there's no real plot, just a collection of amusing tales in the fish-out-of-water genre - but it is a fair amount of fun to read, despite the sometimes harrowing aspects of life on an isolated island.
The woman who is having an ongoing nervous breakdown and the families who live in poverty and degradation could give this a Deliverance or Wake In Fright tinge but Ms Beckwith glosses over or chooses to ignore the implications in favour of presenting her own rose-tinged recollections.
An entertaining memoir, though somewhat dated by the authoress's tone, which at times is slightly off-putting, as when describing the (admittedly amusing) antics of the "primitive" Gaelic community in which she chooses to live and work. She counterbalances this, however, with frequent laughter at her own urbanite blunders, and with warm admiration for the unique wisdom, humor, and charm of her new neighbors. Recommended for fans of James Herriot, or anyone who fancies a memorable and laugh-out-loud "bookcation" to the Scottish Hebrides.
The book started great and until midway I was fascinated but then the reading was a bit slower as seemed a bit of repetition and the language a bit forced ,but read I did till the end .I am sure that Lillian Beckwith gave a correct portrayal of the times of the life in one corner of the Hebrides ,making it anecdotal from the view of the outsider .I will also look into her other books about her life there as she stayed on .
This book was charming and delightful. Full of character and the fun of discovering a new place that is so fully different from one’s previous experience. It reads like a novel but I think it’s a sort of memoir-ish book?
MemoriesI read this book when i was about 12 years old and was delighted to find it again on Amazon at age 68! I've also read 'The Sea for Breakfast' and 'Beautiful Just' and look forward to more.
The start of this book is very good and I'm sure it would be enjoyable to read if you are planning a trip to this part of Scotland. It is amusing, relaxing reading. It's a memoir of her time in the islands.
Wonderful ,hilariously captivating.Who would have thought a brief spell away to the country, for fresh air, rest and relaxation would have lasted nigh on two years. Brought about such toil and hilarity. A must read.
I really enjoyed this book and it gave a loving insight into a culture I suspect does not exist anymore. Wonderful. And funny!
I have read this three times. A bit of fun and a nice memoir of island life when it could still be remote.
Reminded me of the James Herriot books. Quite funny and sometimes ridiculous, but well written. A real insight into the lives of the highland crofters.
Read part of it, then gave up. The author thought everything was icky, and I'm not going to spend an entire book in the company of someone who constantly complains, justified or not.
Three and a half. A bit dated, but so funny and written in such an entertaining voice. Makes me chuckle just thinking about it.
A charming, very amusing picture of the Scottish Hebrides in a bygone era. Great fun!
The blurb read:When Lillian Beckwith advertised for a secluded place in the country, she received a letter with the following unusual description of an isolated Hebridean croft: 'Surely it's that quiet even the sheeps themselves on the hills is lonely and as to the sea it's that near as I use it myself everyday for the refusals...'Her curiosity aroused, Beckwith took up the invitation.
She has such a way with words, and such a fine hand for characters that you can't help feeling that you're there, and that you never want to leave."I like the way you townfolk seem to be able to dance on your toes," panted my partner admiringly."You're dancing on them too," I replied with a ghostly chuckle that was half irony and half agony."Me?
“The Hills Is Lonely” is a memorable true story published in 1959, after Englishwoman, Lillian Beckwith moved to Scotland’s Hebrides.
Lillian describes laughing over the phrasing of Morag’s replies, conjuring the impression of a simpleton.
Supplies needed to be ordered and ferried and no one, until Lillian, owned a car.What makes this novel fun is that Lillian had no interest in teaching modern ways to the people but was on the contrary, eager to immerse herself in their everyday living.
It was daunting and utterly alien to Lillian, the night of her arrival.
This is my favorite book.
All time favorite.
I really put it up there, right with the good book itself.
But with that being said, you have to enjoy a few things before you will enjoy this book.
Lillian Beckwith writes in an almost conversational manner.
It can be very poetic at times.
She is a humble person and it radiates in her writing.
I was disappointed to see a few reviewers who felt she was actually making fun of the crofters.
And I agree totally with many of the other reviewers who mark these as to be read and re-read again.
