https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25387351-rogue-lawyer
As I scanned through the GoodRead readers' reviews, I noticed that the 4 and 5* ratings were from those readers who confessed that they'd never read a John Grisham novel before.
I've read all of his books - ALL.
While reading this, I had the feeling that his agent was pressuring him to write another novel and he just didn't have a story in mind.
I'm assuming that his agent then said, "Well, what about something like the Lincoln Lawyer?
Just put a Grisham spin on that formula."John Grisham is an excellent novelist and also really adept at bringing legal shortcomings to light.
This book is not worthy of him.
It's a lot like another book of his that I read, but I remember the other as better. A jumble of storylines, but no resolution, it stopped when he quit writing. It didn't seem like an ending to me.
There's precious little evidence to actually link the kid to the crime, but the cops and the prosecutors are determined to railroad him to a death sentence and they've convinced practically everyone in town that the kid is guilty.In another case, Rudd is defending a brutal killer who has already been convicted and is on death row, and in consequence he's not a very popular guy with the general public either.
The cases themselves were very interesting and I really hope that Grisham has another Sebastian Rudd novel in his future.
The book tells Sebastian's story of representing various clients.
At first I found it interesting as Sebastian's character was being developed and the first case presented.
I think the blurb is slightly misleading and makes the book sound a bit more exciting than it actually is.
Sebastian is definitely the very definition of a rogue lawyer and I think Grisham develops his character very well.
In fact, most of the characters were well developed, I just think the story could've been developed a bit more with more suspense and focus on one case.
Overall, I did quite like it, though I think there was something missing.
If you want to write a book of short stories, call it a book of short stories. Don't call it a novel. No plot, no novel.
It's been a while since I've read any of John Grisham's books, and this one was really disappointing.
I felt like he was trying to capitalize on his past "small town law enforcement corruption" themes, with a dash of Scott Turow...
poor Mickey Haller the Lincoln Lawyer is just floating in the soup.
Very disappointing.
I mean, I really like Mickey Haller, but Sebastian Rudd is a poor substitute (some might say a knock-off, and I wouldn't disagree with them).
Was this supposed to show us what a badass Rudd is, living on the edge??
Thank goodness this was a library book.
The novel follows his life and the cases he is working on and although each case is interesting and well written it fails to capture the imagination and fully hold the reader.The book is almost a series of short stories that are loosely connected and as soon as each case had captured my attention it was over and moved on.
I found this more than a little disappointing and thought that if maybe the novel was kept to one case and expanded it would have been far more interesting.Overall I thought this was well below the standard of some of John Grisham's other books.
At best, it is a book of short stories featuring the same protagonist.
By insulting juries in this manner, Grisham is insulting all of us because any and all of us could eventually serve on similar juries.The anti-police and prosecutor case that is presented at the beginning of the book eventually fades away completely and is not mentioned again in later portions of the book, which is really a collection of stories, rather than one cohesive story.
The author makes an attempt to tie the stories together at the end of the book, but he doesn't really succeed.
Rogue Lawyer is the 26th stand-alone novel by popular American author, John Grisham.
Sebastian Rudd is a rogue lawyer.
Rudd does spend quite a bit of time justifying his actions, though, especially when it comes to his broken marriage, his obsession with cage fighting and his interactions with his seven-year-old son.This is a legal thriller that touches on wrongful arrest, trial by media, death row, and death by SWAT team.
There is a dramatic prison escape, a car bombing, more than one kidnap, several cage fights, sex trafficking, and a SWAT assault, all against a background of conflict with Rudd’s ex-wife over visitation rights.
It felt more of a chore to read than a pleasure. At times there were enjoyable parts that left you wanting more, but those feelings where short lived as I finished the book grudgingly. I also noticed that It was pretty repetative, as if the author was trying to recount parts of the story so that he could remember what he was writing about.All in all, It was ok. It felt like a knock off of The Lincoln Lawyer.
I really enjoyed this book.
Sebastian Rudd is the type of lawyer who skates close to breaking the law.
He defends the lowlifes that most people won't defend, which puts him and his son in danger.
Is he crazy to be defending these lowlifes?
I found Rudd a refreshing character.
He didn't really care what people thought and he worked hard when he knew his client was innocent and getting a raw deal.
He also doesn't like corruption within the police department and will go after them even if it is dangerous.
This is a pretty fast paced book that will carry the reader along.
I was cheering on the protagonist from the side lines :) My View:It has been a very, very long time since I have read a John Grisham adult novel, in fact it has been so long I have lost all memories of the individual book (it was, at the least, read thirty year ago so perhaps I can be forgiven for not remembering the details but having a lingering impression that this author can write!) and that memory is not ill-conceived!
(Should and does are two very different things though – or am I just cynical?) I found myself cheering on this rogue lawyer, anxious on his behalf, rapidly turning pages and hoping that all would work out in the end.
And then you have a "No-knock warrant", which indirectly says that the law enforcement can pretty much give a middle finger to the second and forth amendments, if they have a probable cause that is.
And it doesn't matter that the law enforcement made a mistake and invaded the wrong home.It's not the first time that I got my neighbor's mail, and vise versa, we don't have names on our apartment doors.
I love the American people and the culture, laws however, it's a whole different matter.Imagine if my neighbor was doing something fishy and my home got invaded by mistake, in the middle of the night.
I did thoroughly enjoy some parts but then at other parts I wanted to rip my eyes out because I found it SO boring and stretched out.
They had my full attention and I couldn't turn the pages fast enough.
But then one of the boring stretches would hit and I'd quickly lose interest.
He was quite abrasive and rude and seemed like he couldn't care less how his actions affected others.
But the rest of the characters were an interesting and very diverse cast and part of what partially saved this book from being a total flop.
Sebastian Rudd is a lawyer like few others who have graced the pages of a Grisham novel.
Taking up the gauntlet, I let this fellow reader know that Grisham's greatness without a series can be summed up in two strong arguments: a) no single lawyer could handle the varied nature of Grisham's legal thrillers all on his own, and b) the ability to create a fresh character in each novel, including surroundings and backstory, is more impressive than parachuting a character in the same surroundings time and time again.
I think this is probably my second ever Grisham novel.
Divorced and with only minimal contact with his young son, Sebastian Rudd, the rogue lawyer is brash and cynical and attracts attention from clients others would not touch.
When I first started this novel I thought it would be once case carried through the entire book.
But that didn’t eventuate either as there is a link (pun intended, which you will pick up as you progress through the book) between some of the cases.
This was my first time reading John Grisham, and what a treat! It’s said that Grisham is America’s favorite storyteller, and now I know why. John Grisham mixes the exciting pace of a thriller with fascinating legal elements, and the results are brilliant. Rogue Lawyer’s protagonist, Sebastian Rudd, is an absolute whirlwind—smart, gritty, tough—and an easy character to root for. Getting swept up in John Grisham’s latest masterpiece is unavoidable…and immensely entertaining!- Sarah E. Doubleday Marketing Department
Who doesn’t love a rogue? John Grisham has developed an interesting, more complex than meets the eye, character in one Sebastian Rudd. If crime is fun, this is it. Let’s leave it at that. I thoroughly enjoyed my time listening to Rogue Lawyer, expertly executed by narrator by Mark Deakens.
3-4*s I enjoy legal stories. This is a collection of varied, loosely connected vignettes. Fortunately, my initial concern that the episodes were going to be more of a stage for personal opinion than story were unfounded. This is not Grisham's best work, but I enjoyed listening to this novel. It kept me both interested and entertained.I recommend reading the reviews written by James Thane, Carol, and Matt.
بداية مشوقة، وسط أقل تشويقا، نهاية هايلة.
The pounding, caught on video, proved fatal - and now Rudd is the only thing standing between his fighter and decades in jail.If I have a complaint, it's that there's a fair amount of repetition, although that's necessary to some extent to make sure readers connect the dots among the various "stories." Still, because there seems to be a little too much of it, I'm inclined to give this one 4.5 stars - but since that's not possible here I'm perfectly willing to round up rather than down.
I haven't read a Grisham in years. Was pleasantly surprised by this new one. I admit, I felt like all his books followed a formula and I got a little bored. Not so with this book.At first, I was a little confused by the plot. It seemed to be separate stories about our Rogue Lawyer...then all of a sudden! BAM!!! Linked!!! I was sucked in.Hopefully this Rogue Lawyer is not a one off and we get to hear more of his exploits soon.
Definitely not your average crime thriller, and the main character is amazingly well-written. This book has a great urban setting and a very suspenseful plot.
As always John Grisham keeps his readers entertained from start to finish. This book reminds me of Mickey Hallor, the Lincoln Lawyer from Michael Connelly. Same premise and equally as good.
He does nothing for me.Including Rogue Lawyer, I’ve read three books by him.
The only Grisham novel I completed was a simple story called Calico Joe. It was really a novella, about 175 pages.
In all fairness to Mr. Grisham I was unaware that this is not a novel but rather a collection of short stories featuring the same lawyer.
(Maybe this book should be called the Econoline Lawyer.)We all have styles we like and styles we don’t.
This book, like the one I alluded to earlier about the coal mining industry, takes place in a mythical town named Milo.
I've read a couple of John Grisham's novels; this book was the most entertaining, gripping from beginning to end.
Each chapter in the book is more or less independent, describing some case or client in a vivid way that put me there in the story.
The book is about a criminal defense lawyer named Sebastian Rudd.
The defendant is borderline normal/retarded, and does not understand everything that is happening around him.Rudd takes clients that other lawyers would not want to touch.
Part of the appeal of the stories is Rudd's ability to think "out of the box" in defending his clients--some innocent, and some guilty.
As a long, long time fan of John Grisham and his stellar writing style, I was torn as to how to rate this one.
I felt, to some extent, that I was peeling away skinny volumes of short stories that were conjoined at the hip to make a novel.
I guess Grisham opened up his daily newspaper and saw a novel beaming up at him.Don't get me wrong.
Even on a bad day, Grisham can turn out a decent novel.
He's that good.
This was a good read, but not a satisfying one.
This is a very different book than some of the others he's written lately.
This book is somewhat better.
The main character is a lawyer named Sebastian Rudd who works out of a bulletproof van after his real office was firebombed.
But the two did manage to get pregnant and had a son that Rudd gets to see for a few hours here and there, and one of his main legal challenges is to fend off his angry ex-wife who would prefer that Rudd not see their son at all....a fair amount of frustration there.
We all deserve a fair trial and legal representation.
As I have only read four novels of John Grisham prior to this, I have a very shallow pool of comparisons to lead with. IMHO nothing Grisham writes will ever come close to how I felt when reading "A Time to Kill."' Although there was some great suspense in the middle of the book, I never felt that I was ever immersed in the story. It's probably the type of book I should have stopped reading.
A new character, and legal crime thriller series featuring a street defense lawyer named Sebastian Rudd- ROGUE LAWYER .
Of course, we have room for another controversial witty, unorthodox hero – ready to fight an unjust and corrupt legal system, with less concern of morals or values.
Sebastian Rudd a well- known street lawyer with no need to advertise.
A huge long-time Grisham fan,  having read all his books, cleverly crafted, Rudd is a lawyer you will root for --- one who helps the underdog fight the bureaucracy and politics of the system.
