https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376741.Prelude
Beautifully, sensually written. Katherine Mansfield's descriptions a family's long summer days spent together are wonderful. The characters are exquisite, and the more you read, the more the tension of that seemingly perfect family bubbles under the surface until it threatens to explode. I loved the continuation of the story into the last 2 parts of the book.
Short story perfection. Set in her native New Zealand, this story features the Burnell family, who also appear in some of her other stories. At first glance they seem like a normal family, but on closer inspection Mansfield exposes their underlying struggles and insecurities. Written in the Modernist style, this lyrical flowing prose is a joy to read.
The audio version is available at LibriVox.One of the first books to be published by Leonard & Virginia Woolf's Hogarth Press, Prelude is among Katherine Mansfield's most accomplished stories, inspired by her childhood in New Zealand. (Introduction by ire monger)
I am very grateful to all my kiwi friends who rolled their eyes and groaned painfully whenever Katherine Mansfield was mentioned (forced study at school no doubt) as I have put off reading her until I am old enough to appreciate it! Just such a beautifully written and evocative book - that the complete non-plot does not matter at all. The people seem so vivid and the stream of consciousness so plausible.
A wonderful writer, beautifully descriptive and with penetrating characterizations; she's very different than anyone I have read. These stories, though, are dark, showing ugliness and pathology behind the facade of a tranquil domestic life.
Very V&V (Vita & Virginia/Mrs. Dalloway so clearly loved it. Amazing writing of the undertones and insecurities of domestic life. Mansfield brings amazing clarity to seemingly simple but very deeply felt life experiences.
Great descriptions of the scenes. But I was expecting more from this classic book.
"Honk, honk," came from the servant girl. She had adenoids." probs the funniest thing ive read all year
So many great stories.This is an excerpt from "Book of a lifetime: Prelude by Katherine MansfieldReview from Kirsty Gunn: the IndependentPrelude is the story of a family who are leaving their house in town for life in the country, all told through the eyes of one of the younger daughters, Kezia, who observes every single little thing as one home is dismantled and another set up to take its place.
if I could describe this short story with one word it would be " happiness". This story like others written by Katherine Mansfield's are so personal and universal that anyone would feel identified with its characters or nostalgic scenes. I felt genuinely happy while reading it.
Incredible piece of work. I like short stories a lot.
Honestly, I'm sure I could've enjoyed this more but I couldn't help but drift off into my own world every few sentences and only realise I was doing it paragraphs later.
Loved this story. Great piece of modernist fiction (especially after battling with To the Lighthouse, which frankly did my head in).
https://librivox.org/prelude-by-kathe...
Oh. Wow.
