https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13555711-the-use-of-force
It's not all sexy as it sounds, but he really drove me crazy as I had to write 4 paragraph essays about his 16-word poems.
My bitching aside, I love William Carlos Williams' poetry, this short story not so.First of all, the title The Use of ForceSo sensational, but really the story is nothing of the sort.I read this because it's in almost, if not all, all the lists of best short stories, but this just didn't do it for me.
When I read short stories, I expect some sort of story arc, this had none.
Upon first reading this, the doctor seems like he's trying to diagnose a stubborn child with Diphtheria. The second time reading this it seems comparable to a rape. Seriously.
ولكن القصة ليست مجرد تعاطي مع الأسئلة،بل تتعدى ذلك إلى توضيح الانعاكاسات البشرية والتفاعلات النفسية العميقة معها - بشكل طريف نوعاً ما.
القصة تتلخص في طبيب يأتي ليفحص طفلة صغيرة يشك أهلها في أنها تعاني من مرض مميت (في ذلك الوقت - كالتهاب اللوزتين مثلاً!!) ولكن الطفلة ترفض أن تفتح فمها للفحص ..
في النهاية يتمكن الطبيب بالعنف أن يفتح فمها رغماً عنها بملعقة حديدية وسط صراخ الطفلة وتألمها!ولكن المسألة ليست في أنه تمكن من معرفة مرضها وعلاجها ..
بل هي في أن الطبيب كما وصف نفسه (لأنه هو راوي القصة ..) قد استمتع في إرغامها!!
لا علاج!ويعود السؤال ذاته يطرح نفسه بعد الانتهاء من القصة: هل يمكن تبرير العنف؟!
وعميقة جداً جداً.
The more I read it and the more we discussed about it in the class, the more it sounded like a scene of rape! The little girl is not the person who is sick, it's the doctor!
I read this once; waited a moment, and then read it again. At first I thought nothing at all, but then it started to sink in and I thought too many thoughts.
This is a short story about a doctor who goes to the Olson family’s house to inspect their daughter.
In the story he notices that the parents tell him things that he doesn’t need to know, as they usually do.
She had been hiding this from her parents for three days, but the doctor was able to find out the cause of the problem immediately.
The doctor in the story showed up at the family’s house instead of setting up an appointment like we do today.
There was a time when the doctor was frustrated at the parents because they didn’t try their hardest to get her mouth open.
William Carlos Williams. American poet, essayist and short story writer. A physician too who had delivered more than three thousand babies in a working-class neighborhood of Rutherford, New Jersey where he was born.This is a story of a sick, young, pretty girl who has a fever, sick for several days already, with her worried parents. The doctor (most probably Williams) wants to check her throat. But she won't open her mouth...
The doctor went to the Olsen’s house to check on their daughter because she was sick.
The doctor tries to look in the daughter’s throat but she tries to fight him by keeping her mouth shut.
After a couple of tries the doctor succeeds to get a silver spoon into the daughter’s mouth so he can look in her throat.
The dad changes in the story, he goes from being afraid of hurting his daughter to helping the doctor so he is a dynamic character.
The daughter is a dynamic character also, she goes from quiet to screaming.
Another read for my Short Story class. I found this one to be compelling. Most analysis on this piece has the girl behaving as a brat in a power struggle against her parents. I saw it as the girl trying to protect her parents from her illness. She knows full well that she has diphtheria, and she wants to keep her parents from worrying about her, so she hides the symptoms.
The characterization in this short story was very well done. The sexually charged wording of the story confounds me, and I still have no idea what was going through that doctor's mind...but I loved the way the lack of quotation marks confused the voices of the characters with those of the narrator. I couldn't decide if I was being told a story, or if I was living it. Very well done!
This is a good short story that follows a country doctor trying to diagnose a little girl. The author captured reality well. I liked delving into a doctor's mind and seeing it broken down since we always think of doctors as rational beings.
Dude.
Not as disturbing as I expected, but it is still very well written. The style is surprinsingly fresh for its epoque.
He has to have her dad hold her down while he prys open her mouth with a spoon.Characterization:The doctor is a male and wants to just get the job done.
She understands if the doctor finds out she has a problem with her throat that she will be diagnosed with a life threatening sickness.The dad at the beginning of the book is scared for his daughter and wants to make sure she is ok.
He then switches and helps the doctor by holding down his daughter despite her screaming.Setting:The setting of this book is in an old farm house in early 1900's.
I hate that I had to read this for my English class and I don't look forward to discussing it. The prose was blunt, yet somehow managed to ramble, which annoyed me greatly. Worse, the allegory was simultaneously flawed AND unsubtle. I'm so sick of William Carlos Williams.
This story was the quite informative inside the mind of a psychopath. We see how the main character takes pleasure in torturing the young girl and his disturbative thoughts
Powerful short story balancing the use of force versus doing good. Well done.
. . . ?
I liked the setting, and how realistic it was, with the fretting parents and the terror of sickness and disease. Seems turn of the century or early 1900's. No antibiotics available.
I read this as part of a class short story review task:_______________________________________The Use of Force is about a doctor who visits a family.
During which time, the doctor contemplates on some possible actions, including forcing open the child’s throat.The story starts off vaguely, with no description of the doctor’s whereabouts; only that he was to go to a kitchen.
For example, when the mother (who speaks the most) reprimands her sick child, I felt like she’s talking from outside a bubble.
I think young adults who love that sort of genre will like this story.
He realized that the daughter was lying and really did have a sore throat after all.This story is told in the first person narrative by the doctor.
The daughter's name is Mathilda, she is a very stubborn little girl, who was hiding a secret from her parents.The setting of this story takes place in the warm kitchen of the Olson house.
At the end of the story the doctor did end up overpowering her, and her secret was out.I recommend this book to anyone in or out of high school.
I've seen "The Use of Force" listed several times on lists of the greatest short stories of all time, which is what piqued my interest in it in the first place, and I was pretty open to the story itself at the beginning.
He tries to examine her but she resists, and eventually even the girl's parents are beginning to irk the doctor by their idiocy and reluctance to use force against the doctor.
And sure, I get the psychological implications of the story — girl says no, man says yes, girl still says no, man forces her to do something, man feels powerful — but it wasn't even a compelling story to make that moral stick with you.
I felt as if I were actually right there in the scene watching this poor sick girl ferociously fight being examined.
I appreciated the realistic depiction of the doctor's thoughts and perceptions on the girl's stubbornness as he transitioned from being the a calm and kind doctor to being annoyed that this tiny, feeble and sick girl was winning in this battle to avoid having her throat examined.
The girl was attempting to hide her fate from her parents as to not cause them grief.
This short story briefly touches on two key topics: medical ethics and the use of force. Under the law, although the doctor continue conducting the medical screening out of good faith, the moment he applied the unnecessary force (of which caused physical hurt and pain to the patient), he has already committed a criminal offence (VCGH). Though, given the situation, should he opt to leave the patient, he can also be charged for negligence...So... the underlying question is whether seeking the truth and trying to save a life would be worth the potentially-disastrous price you might have to pay?
1.5 Stars out of 5 StarsIn this short story, a doctor is called for a house visit and finds himself up against a dreadfully sick (and dreadfully stubborn) child - and the process of trying to examine the kicking and protesting child's throat begins. I found nothing special about this story, and while I did not specifically dislike it, I did not exactly enjoy it. The (what I think to be) sociopathic feelings of the doctor and bratty attitude of the child didn't exactly entertain me.
Well.. A girl falls sick and a doctor comes to treat her. She wouldn't open her mouth when asked to do so and they have to use force to make her open. And then they find out that she is sick inside and has been hiding it. I didn't get the point of the story. The situations in this story are well-written. And the writing style is good. But I still don't get the point of the plot.
This was a short story that pays a quick look into the ethics of medicine and, in general, the use of force for somebody else's own good. It is certainly a very morally blurry situation the one presented in this tale and I'm not convinced it was the best course of action, but then again, what else could there have been done? Tough, but maybe its overly-simplistic narration made it hard to buy.
This short (very short) story paints an incredibly vivid picture, just as Williams' poetry does. There's nothing huge and intense to analyze (at least as far as themes go), but there's some great language, a very real voice, and a small slice of life that is portrayed with honesty.
No. Just no. It's such a weird story that had a pointless end
Did the girl have diphtheria? or was it just the MacGuffin?
