https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4108195-aangan
The reason, I bought it was because in 9th grade Urdu text book we had a chapter from this novel.
In case of Muslim households, there was chance a good chance that both party views could exist in same family’s different members.Its the story of narrow-minded cultural practices which were mostly pushed by women of the family, the senseless and hypocritical nature of them and how these made up cultural taboos took lives and nobody even in their hearts felt sorry for what they have done.This is the story of world of women of that time period.
آزادی؛ ان بچوں کا اس وقت کا شغل جو اب بٹوارے کے بعد اس پہ دھڑا دھڑ کتابی چورن ، سیاسی چغلیاں اور آزادی کے 'ثمرات' بھگت رہے، بٹوارہ؛ ایک بچی کو جس کی کتابیں امرت سر رہ گئی تھیں ان کتابوں کو یاد کر کے رولاتا ہے، گھریلو ناچاقیاں ، تعلیمی جہالت، وقت کو لے کے پائے جانے والے مختلف لوگوں کے مختلف رویئے۔۔۔ ؛ دیگر مضامین۔ اختتام؛ عورت جو کہ بہن ہے ۔۔۔ اپنی بہن کی کہانی نہیں دوہراتی۔۔۔ محبت نہیں کرتی ۔۔۔ محبت کو پانا نہیں چاہتی۔۔۔ اور اپنی بہن سے جیسا لاشعوری سے کیئے گئے وعدے ہر خوش ہے کہ تہمینہ آپا آپ کی وجہ سے میں اس معاشرے کے اس ظلم کا شکار نہیں ہوئی۔۔۔ آپا آپ کو ہرا دیا۔۔۔ آپا اب "ہم" جیت گئیں۔'ارے چھمی، یہ لوگ کچھ نہ پا سکنے کی حسرت میں معصوم معصوم کہانیوں سے جی بہلاتے ہیں۔ 'آنگن، نام کی طرح ایک دلچسپ ناول۔
Aliya keeps herself busy in her books and studies and dreams of a free life one day and that forms the rest of the story.~This book is a fine feminist classic with the courtyard as the central setting, with respect to the bygone era where the courtyard was a place where women used to gather together.
It was a very difficult review to write as I had so many thoughts while reading it.~This is not a partition or a political novel per say.
Touched me but I didn't like the end. She has put unbearable grief, pain and sufffering with one girl which is not natural! I dont like that part otherwise rest is fine
You can not leave this book half once you have started reading it! Khadijah Mastur at her best.
کافی عرصے سے اس کتاب کو پھڑنے کی تمنا آخر پوری ہوگیئ ،پھڑھ کر خوشی اس لیے ہوی کیونکہ اس ناول میں سے ایک اقتباس ہمارے کورس میں دیا .گیا تھا .تو اس لیے تھوڑی سی جزباتی وابستگی بھی تھی .ہمارے اردو کے استاد محترم سے اس ناول کے بارے میں کلاسیک کا لفظ بھی بہت بارسنا.
میں کہانی بتانا اسلئے نہیں بتانا چاہتا کہیں ایک میرا نام سپویلیرزکی فہرست میں نہ آجاے اور دوسرا اس ناول ک پہلے حصّے کو پڑھ کے پتا چل سکتا ہے کہ مصنفہ نے کن تاریخوں اور زمانوں کو چھیڑا ہے .
اس ناول کو پھڑنے کے بعد خدیجہ صاحبہ کے اور تصنیفات پھڑنے کی تمنا پیدا ہوگیی ہے ..
Unnecessary gloomy touch!Why should one not want to fall in love/not want to be with one's beloved.A book should not teach others to be paranoid and scared of falling in love.Nonetheless,its brilliantly written,even if I don't agree with the concept!
Aliya is adamant when it comes to rejecting Jameel’s love for her, despite a certain physical attraction, fully aware that he has wronged another cousin Chammi, writes middling poetry, hasn’t distinguished himself in the professional sphere and is a little too much like the other men in her life given to sacrificing their women and children on the altar of their politics.
The book is radically ahead of its time in giving us a heroine who adamantly sticks to her guns when it comes to resisting patriarchy even when enforcers pressure her with the prospects of love and marriage, which Aliya realizes are both likely to entrap her more surely than the chains she has been struggling against all her life.
sort of book which one read in one go . it was like compilation of tragedies. will write detailed review sometime
What an incredible book. Mastur's novel gives an excellent look into the home of Indian citizens at the time of partition and the myriad ways in which loyalties were divided in the end.
This novel is a beautiful compilation of stories of some real tragic characters.
It's the story of how the fortune of some families altered in the struggle for subcontinent partition.
One might assume that this book is anti-male yet in the bigger picture of things, all the choices were actually contributing to the formation of a new country.
She sees the struggle of the people around her, she feels it, but mostly unable to do anything about it.Its hard not to feel this book, being a child of the same country.
This was a difficult novel to review.
It’s good, let’s start there.
It’s definitely worth reading.
I personally love a book that is critical of everything—nothing is objectively good or bad, and good and bad can be found in everything.
That measured judgement is frequently lacking, especially in a novel, where it’s extraordinarily easy to be reductive in assessments.All of that said, the genius child that Aliya is a bit convenient.
She always has measured judgement, respect for elders, even when they don’t deserve it, an unfailing commitment to her values and moral code—she literally never does anything wrong, while simultaneously recognizing the failings of others.But, it was an enjoyable read.
I started reading this in anticipation of the Hum TV drama and was thrilled to find an English translation.
I wasn’t disappointed.
This is a short novel, but it’s written beautifully with a lot of powerful female characters (especially for the time period it is set in).
You find yourself invested in each and every character (yes, even Asrar - especially Asrar!).
I’ve taken off one star for two reasons.
One, I found the ending too abrupt.
Two, the fact that the entire story is told from Aaliyah’s point of view made for shallow understanding of the characters.
I sort of want to cry, I'm confused? 'Twas okay, I'm not going to cry.
This book could have had such a nice feel-good ending, but NOPEEE!!! i am definitely swearing off of urdu novels (or maybe just partition ones) for the rest of 2018.
Good book to read. amazing story of pre partition and the norm of the life in those times.
Very good story, well done.
This book is very close to my heart. Its characters, main idea, struggles and plot twists are natural. The best part of this book is that no situation and no character is perfect - that is what happens in the real world. A good read.
Unnecessary gloom, the writer overdid it
