https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11313.Silver_on_the_Tree
The White Rider gave me some wonderful chills, especially during the train ride reveal.for me:The Dark Is Rising > The Grey King > Silver on the Tree > Greenwitch > Over Sea, Under Stonedifferent ratings for different books; overall the series is 5 stars.
in that first Rising, the idea is that humans have become inured to slaughtering other humans, and The Dark has taken advantage of that tendency and turned it into a blank apathy or a mindless cruelty.
a disinterest in anything besides slaughter.this modern Rising is different, except for its basic mindlessness and blankness, cruelty and apathy.
Fire on the mountain shall find the harp of goldPlayed to wake the Sleepers, oldest of the old;Power from the green witch, lost beneath the sea;All shall find the Light at last, silver on the tree. This was my Harry Potter, you kids.It is still magic.September 2013 rereadI still remember the day in fifth grade, many, many years ago, when the school librarian told me that the book I'd been waiting for was in. Silver on the Tree, the fifth and final volume in Susan Cooper's Dark is Rising sequenc
I was sad, because I was about to read the last book and then it would be over.I remember loving this concluding volume, but also feeling such sadness when I was finished because the series was over.I haven't felt anything like that since, until a few years ago when I read the entire Harry Potter series in a month.
I don't know what that "special sauce" is in a children's book series that makes it transcend plot and prose and curl literary fingers around your heart, but Rowling had it, and Susan Cooper had it.Now, I am not much of a rereader.

Re-reading childhood favorites is dangerous, but in the case of the Dark Is Rising books, you really should not do it.What I loved was the Drew children, because Stone Over Sea is a wonderful book and I kept reading to get more of them.
Nesbit book is infinitely more careful about powers and rules and costs than these books.Silver On the Tree was the worst offender, followed closely by The Dark Is Rising, for being full of convoluted and nonsensical challenges and mysterious labyrinths of guesswork.
So when I write YA with supernatural elements, I want to be sure to keep my evil and my danger located firmly in the human.
- I HATE the "convenient memory wipe" device wherever and whenever it appears...which leads me to my final point...Susan Cooper has been compared to J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis, not necessarily for her prose (which is great indeed) but for her "moral vision" of the "sweeping conflict of good and evil" (Psychology Today).
Christianity believes that good is actually much more powerful than evil, and that simple people - mortals, children, and hobbits, if you will - have just as much a right to participate in history as the learned, powerful, and great.Cooper's worldview, going by these books, is Manichean and Gnostic.
Well, this was exceedingly disappointing.Silver on the Tree encapsulates and highlights every single thing that was frustrating about the series as a whole: the vagueness of the plot, the lack of any real sense of danger (considering that the Dark!is!Rising!), the quests that are not really quests and are more like stumbling unto Things, the overwhelming sense that everything is pre-ordained even though everybody talks about free will, the lack of any character development, the romantic obsession with King Arthur.Actually, I am still not really sure what exactly the Dark is.
And this is the last book of the sequence, Silver on the Tree.Just like in the previous book, especially The Dark Is Rising and its Wild Hunt, magic runs wild in Silver on the Tree; things happen, impossible to be explained; don’t ask, don’t ask, just enjoy the ride.A train that appears from nowhere, taking passengers from different times in history?A lost land that is visited when it’s not been lost yet?A leap through time and space – will it disrupt and change the future?
But just like the Arthurian legends, the sequence contains more than just references to Christianity; they’re always a mix-up bag that also consists of the so-called paganism and whatnot.
I’m just not engaging on that level, after the book opens so viscerally.All right, enough stalling.
Nothing unusual about what I was after – I wanted to read about kids having access to a world bigger than the regimented, difficult, pedestrian one I lived in.
And the end of this book slammed the door in all our faces.This time, of course, I knew what was coming, and as an adult I can follow the argument Cooper has been having about it all along.
There are also some parts that never fail to make me smile, like Barney's enthusiasm, and Bran and Will's Arthur/Merlin dynamic.The actual end of the book and sequence both is at once exhilarating and hurtful.
Is it that Will, Jane, Simon, Barney and Bran return to our world, and Merriman goes alone?
Or is it that Jane, Simon, Barney, Bran and Merriman return to where they belong, while Will is left alone?
Bran still loves Owen (and, arguably another father-figure, John).Merriman's last few speeches are amazing, but particularly this, and this is how I'll end my reviews.
The conclusion to the sequence is full of its own magic and beauty, but because of the ending, it just can’t be my favourite.
(Perhaps in a similar way that The Farthest Shore doesn’t work for me; I don’t like it when the magic comes to an end!)The whole sequence in the Lost Land is gorgeous, and probably my favourite thing about this book.
Then, of course, there’s the interactions between the group – such disparate kids, and brought together for a quest beyond their understanding.
That’s why I come back to the book, I suppose, and yet…Originally posted here.
I’ve read this entire series by audiobook, and while I enjoyed it, I really think I need to go back and read them as books.
I didn’t like the way the point of view jumped back and forth between the Drew kids and Will, I didn’t like the way the “magic” was never fully explained (at least not to my satisfaction), and I didn’t like the characters themselves much!
I think that, given how short the books are, I will go back and re-read them at some point.
I really don’t think anything can rescue the characters though.--------------------------Wait WHAT.
The 5th of an amazing children's series I'd read so many times over that the spine creases combined into one, big, obscuring curl. I'm saddened by the previews of the upcoming movie where it appears the lilting beauty of Cooper's story has been fed steroids and 'enhanced' with explosions. What's this about an American protagonist rather than English, and no mention of the Arthurian connection? The horrors!
I never read these as a kid, though I was aware of them. I read them as an adult, and I remember the entire series as a whole. I think I'd like to read them aloud to my kids, once we finish Harry Potter.
In fact I ended up skimming most of the second half and tuning back in only for the final battle.
Throughout the whole series the story suffered from a removed and distant point of view, so I never felt anxious or sad of happy about anything that happened.
The bad guys weren't really that bad- they followed all the rules!
I could go on with everything that bothered me but I'll just say that I couldn't ever become interested in the story and I would probably only recommend this for smaller children, who would be comforted by the following of rules rather than bored by it.
A satisfying conclusion to the series.
I realized, listening to the books, that they're not so much about what happens as about the tone, the sense of place, and the way that good and evil work themselves out in the world.
But the adults trust them to do things on their own - whether it's going for a walk in the mountains or saving the world from the Dark.
You might be able to enjoy this as a stand-alone, but I'd really read the rest of the series first - start with Over Sea Under Stone.
There's little more I can say about this book: I don't understand people who don't like it, who can't see the layers of ambiguity in it, the way there's always more to discover.
I've needed a Stephen Stanton in the past, and Susan Cooper reminds me -- as Will is reminded by his family -- that people like him do exist.
I mean, with the ending of The Grey King, and what he knows about his son...
Does he know that Bran will meet his real father in the course of all this, and does he wonder if Bran will ever come home?
SO a five book series comes down to a three page climax in which the main character (can't really call him a protagonist because of how little he actually does) is little more than an observer.
He's never in danger, never emotionally challenged, and does not grow or change.
He does what he's supposed to do, like everybody else in the series, but there's never really any reason to feel anything for him, about him, or with him.The writing is sometimes beautiful, and the world is interesting, with a sometimes brilliant reimagining of Welsh legend.
But there's never any reason to feel anything for the characters.
What breaks my heart a little bit every time is that they have to forget it happened.Sometimes I think the best ends to stories like this are the bittersweet ones. The adventure happened, you changed the world, but then you must forget and become ordinary once more.
I think that older children and young adults would devour these without fail, and it's not really fair for me to press adult sensibilities upon such fare.The last two books, The Grey King and this one, Silver on the Tree, have forced me to reevaluate Cooper.
But if so much of it is choreographed by destiny, down to the point where our protagonists almost can't fail, then the story becames a cutscene in a rails shooter, and it starts to lose its appeal.That's an issue when the two sides are called "Light" and "Dark".
Susan Cooper describes things and people and scenery endlessly, and continues to drop chunks of convenient exposition all over the place that haven't even been hinted at in the foregoing series, but there is minimal character development of the protagonists, and sometimes minimal interaction.
in some places, she handles this by splitting them up, bringing Merriman into the story late, and sending Will and Bran on a quest to the Lost Land, separating them from the Drews for several chapters.While I liked the character Gwion, the Lost Land chapters bored me so much that I kept falling asleep.
Ironically, Will Stanton actually has more human moments in this book than he's had in a while, so to balance it out, Bran basically loses all sense of self and sleepwalks through his destiny.
Susan Cooper's poor pacing continues, as we begin with random racism that's supposed to represent the Dark's hold on humanity or something, and then there's some magic shit, and then there's random domestic drama, and now here's some English and Welsh history LIKE I CARE, and then there's the Lost Lands where Will and Bran go through a mirror maze or something, and the Drew kids are on a train for some reason, and, seriously, I just plain gave up trying to pay attention about halfway through the book.
This book brings together the rest of the sequence, and brings the struggle of the Light and the Dark to its conclusion.
It's mostly set in Wales, with all the characters reuniting there.
It has a lot of the stunning passages of prose that I've praised before, and as with The Grey King, it's a bit more subtle in terms of the Light/Dark divide.
I'd want more ambiguity there, more of a hint that she had feelings as those of the Light do.Still, I love this book so much.
I love the characters, the weaving in of mythology, the Welshness...
This book was slightly better than the 3rd or 4th book in the series, but I just couldn't get through it. I think one reason that I don't really like these books is that there is no climax. It follows the characters down a fairly straight-forward path. There is no tension; everything just falls into place and is easy.
Cooper brings us to a fine conclusion in the battle between good and evil, the light and the dark. The ending in this is packed with emotion and heartbreak. I thought this was a superb series; if I had read it as a child I would have loved it even more.
Frankly, the choice to push the Drews into the background in favour of Will who is a far less interesting character is one of many absolutely baffling decisions Susan Cooper made in this series.I liked Gwion.
It's still a much better read than "The Dark is Rising." It's weak and meandering as a finale but more than anything it highlights all of the things I already didn't like about this series.Like just think about the structure of this series and how weird it is.
That entire bit was spectacularly bad writing and quite possibly one of the worst prophecies I've ever read in a series.The ending is frustrating.
There's no "big fight," and what did happen was hardly "epic." (view spoiler)[They stand around in a circle singing "Kumbaya" while Bran picks a flower off a tree, then Merriman throws it up into the air where it turns into a dove, and suddenly the dark is vanquished forever...
I'm really going out on a limb here giving five stars to a book I don't remember a thing about other than I really liked it.
In every single book Cooper felt the need to point up the idea that the Cross is of none effect by replacing it with her own symbol of circle-quartered, by showing that a Christian rite is powerless against the Dark, that Christianity is merely going through motions to make oneself feel better.
I don't think I actually finished this book the first time I had access to it; I remembered the conversation between Will and his brother, another truncated thread that goes nowhere because of a time-slip--apparently when an idea wasn't going well Cooper would just timeshift to get herself out of the mess.
It's as if women can somehow hide their allegiance to the Dark behind womanly charms, where the men are immediately picked out (Mr Mitothin doesn't fool Will for a moment; Maggie Barnes, however, has to act wickedly to get him to realise, and "Blodwen Rowlands" fools John entirely until the very end).
It's just something that may bother you, particularly if you forget how old these books are.I think I've ended my reviews of this book with this quotation before, but it's still true.
Not that it isn't, in a way, appropriate to read it as a race against time, since that's what this book is.
From the sleepiness, the slow start of Over Sea Under Stone, and Will's slower awakening in the second book, the urgency is desperate now, and all the characters have their quests.John Rowlands is the figure that struck me most, this time.
Jane, Simon, Barney and Bran, and perhaps John Rowlands, are the only ones who could possibly begin to understand what Will is and what he must do, and yet the Light shut off all hope of that...
The whole series has had an aspect of dream to it - waking in the middle of the night to find oneself back in time, and so forth - but it's a deeper dream this time, with much of the action relocated from the everyday world, or even its hidden magical corners, to the Lost Land, a whole country gone in time.
And at the end, magic passes from the world, and a story about ancient protections and immortal guardians reaches rather awkwardly for the moral that humanity must take care of itself now.
