https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6934242-the-cat-club
Such a sweet book. And about important things, too, like anxiety, fitting in, and how our own fear is often what truly separates us from others.
A very cute story about a cat who must find her special talent to share with a community.
It was neat to read a story that was originally written in 1940's A special cat lives a special live with her owner and is happy. But she would love to be able to be apart of the local 'cat club' that has all the neighborhood cats in it. She doesn't know how to over come her shyness. This being a children's book it is a longer than usual and is a chapter book.
I came across this tiny little book while weeding the children's collection at my library and it is just so sweet!
Jenny Linsky is a small black orphan cat who lives with Captain Tinker.
Captain Tinker, an old sailor who picked up knitting skills sometime in his life, knits shy Jenny a red woolen scarf.
However, with Captain Tinker's assistant Jenny is able to find her skill and join the Cat Club.
We have the tiny little 1944 edition here at the library - I have no idea how it has lasted this long and it was in the picture book section.
The book I read the most as a beginning reader was FIRE CAT by Esther Averill.
Like the story of Pickles the cat, I think I would have been just as taken in with the main cat character in THE CAT CLUB, Jenny Linsky, if I had met her and this book way back then.
Where some may think it's a slow story, I find the young ones are very interested in the story...the emotions and concerns of the characters and how they manage those.
Read with the right cadence, it's anything but slow.
Reprinted and/or excerpt included in The 20th-Century Children's Book Treasury: Picture Books and Stories to Read Aloud.
The underlying message that you have to prove yourself to be talented in order to be accepted rubbed me the wrong way a bit...
Hooray for Jenny Linsky! A wonderful Children's book about Jenny and the Cat Club. Colorful characters, adventure, and always a happy ending.
Cute book, but dragged a little bit and seems a little out of character for cats.
Seemed interesting but this didn't really hold up my attention let alone my little brothers. At the end, we just forced ourselves to finish this story and try not to fall asleep.
This must be the cutest book I have ever read! Even know its only 20 pages but its so adorable!!! You guys have to read it!!
