https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542766.The_Sea_Around_Us
well, simply write.Carson lapses into the technical at times, and she did with Silent Spring as well, but there are more reflective, descriptive, and observation portions in this book.
She traces the history of the oceans' developments while delving into nearly poetic prose that rivals the passion of John Muir and the fine stylistic writing of Stephen Jay Gould.I love the sea, and always have.
If you love the oceans, nautical things, marine life, or are simply concerned about the world you live in, then pick up this book .
I rarely read non-fiction in book form.
I decided to read The Sea Around Us because it was a non-fiction bestseller in 1951, a year that falls within my Big Fat Reading Project, but also because Rachel Carson is one of my heroines.She is an eloquent and inspiring science writer.
It was like taking a tour of the world and getting oriented in a whole new way.I learned about the history of planet Earth, at least as far as what was known by 1951 plus new developments up to 1961 when the book was revised.
Rachel Carson's book renewed that faith for me.
Delving into marine biology, ecology (a term that she originally coined, along with the word ecosystem), oceanography and history, her topics include the beginning of the world and the first oceans, sea life in the abysmal depths, tides and the effect of long-period tides on climate, phosphorescent sea life, islands and submarine mountain ranges, early ocean exploration, and even the search for the lost continent of Atlantis.
The Afterword, by Jeffrey Levinton, expands on Carson's topics, updating them with more current research and understanding of the problems that humans have created in the oceans.
I read the 1963 edition, the ninth printing of this, Rachel Carson's 1951 winner of the National Book Award for Nonfiction.
However, Wikipedia says the award was in 1952.) This '63 edition included an Appendix of 16 notes (in 11 pages) by Carson that updated the mid-century science of the original with several relevant discoveries in the 12 years subsequent to first publication.
As boring as my summary in the prior sentence is, Carson's 198-page work is its diametrical opposite: thoroughly THOROUGHLY interesting and entertaining and enlightening.
I could almost give this four stars - her writing is, as others have said, poetic, and I certainly learned a lot about the ocean. However, I disliked having to wade through so much evolutionary content, and found the last paragraph particularly disturbing - she almost seems to deify the ocean. But I know it is important to read and discuss other beliefs and opinions with my kids, so appreciate the importance of including some books like this in our curriculum.
I learned so much from this book. Really engaging.
Blue Planet before there was Blue Planet. Rachel’s descriptions are equal parts scientific, approachable, and magical. Would have loved this as a kid
Loved the first chapter in particular where she talks about one of the theories of the moon's creation, torn from the top layer of the Earth's crust from what is now the Pacific ocean, pulled by tidal waves of force into space - as the moon.
Her explantaion at this time did not include what we now know today as being human influenced, but nonetheless, she does a great job of explaining the cycles in which our planet goes through - and how everything comes together.It's interesting to think about the Earth and parts of our country, maybe even our home, being under water as part of an ocean in the past - and most likely in the future.
A captivating and beautifully written history of the world's seas and oceans!
Rachel Carson has a poet's voice and even with a lot of scientific information, it's easy to get lost in her words and descriptions.
Also amazing is that over 60 years later, this National Book Award winner is still so relevant and full of interesting and timely information.
Zwinger calls The Sea Around Us one of the most perfect books she's ever read and "my ideal of what natural history should be," and I couldn't agree more.
A perfect book for nature and sea lovers to learn and escape with.
Especially fascinating on the tides and currents that run powerfully through the ocean. Her prose is well-crafted everywhere and sometimes wonderful. "The sea lies all about us. . . . the very winds that move over the lands have been cradled on on its broad expanse and seek ever to return to it. The continents themselves dissolve and pass to the sea, in grain after grain of eroded land. .. In its mysterious past it encompasses all the dim origins of life and receives in the end, after, it may be, many transmutations, the dead husks of that same life."
Carson describes an early 19th century plan to block cold Arctic waters and thus move the warm Gulf Stream closer to New England's shore.
It is a good thing the plan never found funding, she writes, because the actual impact of that warm water would have had the reverse effort of prolonging winters, not to mention disrupting fisheries and other undesired effects.
She had no inkling of climate change scientists warn of today, but she understood oceans.This book was wonderful—as wonderful as everything I have read by Carson.
I enjoyed this book very much and I believe it should be required reading.
Carson is praised for the beauty of her prose, and for making the science of the sea accessible — and both of those things are true.
But what elevates The Sea Around Us to another realm is the nonchalant ease with which Carson connects and develops the staggering complexities of the oceans, building layer upon layer of understanding.
It's an extraordinary narrative, leading from the formation of the earth in fire to the mayfly existence of the smallest celled creatures, swarming in the dark.
This is an extraordinary book, and everyone should read it.
Wonderful overview of oceanic processes around the world from the formation of the seas to human interactions with the ocean today. Carson writes this in the 50s and footnotes throughout the book hold updates from the 60s so it's a bit dated. However, it's a great opportunity to pick out tidbits and do some research on how things have changed since she wrote the book! One of my favorite books of all time.
Beautiful writing, fascinating information, lots of different perspectives from which to consider the topic, and a topic that should be of interest to all of us, what more can we ask?This special edition has the benefit of the author's 1961 footnotes to update the original 1951 edition (all before "Silent Spring").
But I believe the "special" refers to the introduction and afterword by two different authors that were added for this publication in 1989 (which is almost half my life ago), and these are definitely worth reading, too.
But it is a bit startling to learn that acceptance happened after I was born, and thus after the 1961 update of this book.
I learned of Rachel Carson and this book from "Forged in Crisis," which I read earlier in the year; true to that description this was a heartfelt love song to the sea; it is easy to see how this beautifully written and easily digestible volume brought the wonders of ocean science (circa 1950) to a lay public that had theretofore been largely uninterested.
While the science feels a little dated in places, it's still quite enjoyable to think about the state of knowledge at that time, and frankly our knowledge of the sea is still quite sparse despite many advances in technology.

AmblesideOnline year 6 book. The first chapter of this book is heavy on the evolution ... and even outdated evolution theory I believe. After that it is a well written and fascinating look at oceans and all things associated with them. The fact that it is old actually makes it even more appealing to see the history of the research that has been done around the oceans. My daughter didn’t love it but we can’t all love all our school books! lol
A poetic little gem. Science told in a beautiful poetic fashion. Although written almost 70 years ago, so much is still relevant today. A beautiful little book.
She additionally depicts about the distinctive phases of earth's outside layer, change of fluid to strong mass at the external edge and rain which made the world's hull cooled and poured in the sea bowls, depleted away to wind up ocean.
Overall she has gone into the details of the bottom of the shelf deep water sounding methods, topography and life below water.The “The Long Snow Fall”, describes about the beauty of nature where she described the sea, the air and earth have their own beauty in the atmosphere.
Great!Rachel Carson has a way of making science sound like poetry.
This is a great book to read if you are interested in global warming and how the melting ice will affect current climate.
She also discusses sea level rises and what has happened in the past (a great thing to think about if you are looking to buy land that you want to still be land for your kids/grandkids).
All in all, a great book.
Whether you are a naturelover, scientist, or person who is scientifically illiterate but wants to understand some of the reasoning behind global climate change this is an excellent read.
Reading this reminded me of how little I think about science anymore, partly because it can be so dry and technical, and the interesting ideas get bogged down by vocabulary.
It's good to remember how many changes the Earth has gone through and how long it has been existing--so far one of my favorite theories in the book is that when the Earth was still lava it was covered in a huge, thick layer of clouds.
When the lava cooled down enough and hardened, it began raining and kept raining for centuries, and that is how the oceans filled up.
[on phosphorescent displays] "But usually the blaze and glitter of the sea, whatever its meaning for those who produce it, implies no menace to man.
Lights on the shore, lights moving over the water, mean lights kindled and controlled by other men, serving purposes understandable to the human mind.
Yet here are lights that flash and fade away, lights that come and go for reasons meaningless to man, lights that have been doing this very thing over the eons of time in which there were no men to stir in vague disquiet" (34).
This book taught me how the ocean was formed, and how it is renewed.
I learned about the great cycles of the sea, how earth and minerals and water are exchanged, and also about the annual seasons in the sea.
I learned about the ocean currents, and why all the beaches south of Hatteras are so much more comfortable for swimming.This book is dated.
Even after reading the footnotes, there is some information that is no longer current, but most of the information is still valid.
If you love the ocean, I hope you'll read this book.

I had the hardcover version as a kid and would stare at the pictures for hours, especially the double paged one with the giant squid fighting with a whale. I considered becoming a marine biologist because of this book. When I got older and read the words, they had just as much impact as the pictures.
A kindred spirit who also grew up in Pittsburgh and managed to escape to live her dream of being by the sea. Her natural history opus that brought the mysteries of the ocean to millions of non-scientists. Fun to read a science journal cira-1950 and hear Carson mention a new "theory" of plate tectonics.
Rachel Carson exposed me to the ability to combine your love of nature and writing. She connects science to poetry and takes you on a journey you've never been on. Her love and knowledge engross you in the mystical world of the sea.
This book is wonderful, re-affirming my love of Rachel Carson's writing. The scope of the subject is huge, but she takes it on with such grace that I am left amazed! :) The photos in this edition are a definite plus.
Lacks the frightening overtones of Silent Spring.
Although she's best known for Silent Spring, Carson's writing on the sea is her greatest contribution, in my opinion. In this book about the ocean she turns science into poetry.
