https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385508.The_Concept_of_Law
When a choice has been made between such competing alternatives it may be defended as proper on the ground that it was for the ‘public good’ or the ‘common good.’ It is not clear what these phrases mean, since there seems to be no scale by which contributions of the various alternatives to the common good can be measured and the greater identified.”-H.L.A. Hart, the Concept of Law"[S]urvival has still a special status in relation to human conduct and in our thought about it, which parallels the prominence and the necessity ascribed to it in .
Hart, the Concept of Law
Profoundly elegant. Read slowly for full effect.
I think this book is an enthralling read, though when I say that to other people they tend to laugh at me. It's, of course, the definitive modern statment of legal positivism. A laser sharp critique of Austinian positivism and an attractive theory of law as positive legal authority constrained by "rules" which extend beyond individual authorities. Hart's theory makes room for democratic style legislative authorities without falling into either a "naturalism/moralism" about rules or a "commands backed by threats of force" positivism.
De câteva ori am încercat să o citesc cât eram student, dar am renunțat, pentru că mi-a părut plictisitoare. Acum îmi dau seama că, pe lângă faptul că este „fundamental”, Conceptul Dreptului este și o lectură delicioasă prin eleganța și cursivitatea discursului, cu raționamente și argumente care îți colorează întreaga înțelegere a ceea ce înseamnă drept.Cartea asta trebuie să fie obligatorie pentru cursul de Teorie Generală a Dreptului - poate unica lucrare obligatorie.
It didn't actually directly add to my exam preparations (I still passed), as the exams were concerned with the application of the law.
But I found it a great way to unwind between sessions of learning case law by rote, and it was strangely therapeutic to read Hart's masterly and magisterial presentation of the very meaning of law.
As such it isn't so much a legal textbook as a work of philosophy, and I would certainly recommend it to anyone who wants quite read, something different that will carry them away to a country lawyer's office.
As seminal as seminal gets. Whether you agree with Hart or not, this book pulled the field of jurisprudence out from the stodgy debate of 'nature law vs. man's law' and introduced the wonderful insights of analytic and ordinary language philosophy to a generation of legal academics. And most impressively, Hart pretty much nailed this sophisticated form of positivism in one shot. Haven't been many major improvements since. (Oh, and... highly readable prose, unlike most of the stuff you'll find in academia.)
At first I was not very excited by the tremendous simplification and generality but ultimately the force of Hart's arguments and the sometimes way that he playfully examines it ultimately yields a good examination of fundamental concepts. Or are they? There seems to be no right or wrong on this, as much as there are a series of models of which Hart's is one.
seminal work in the philosophy of law-- legal positivism. the important insight is that there's nothing at the bottom of it all-- no transcendent principles waiting to be uncovered, but custom, habit, and the contingent values of human beings.
A defense of what is known as "soft positivism". I will write more later. Now I have to go to the bathroom.
A must read....
Justice H.R. Khanna from the Supreme Court of India was the sole dissenting judge in ADM Jabalpur case.
H.R. khanna in his dissent quoted the words of Justice Hughes from the Supreme court of the United states appealing to the "brooding spirit of the law".
Some enduring ideal which gave buoyancy to his spine while his brother Judges sank under pressure.It was in search of this spirit of law that I turned to Hart's book.
Because people don't just follow laws they also defend laws and at some moments are even inspired by it, just like Justice Khanna.This is the big question that this book tried to answer.
Hart's positivism is different from classical positivists in the sense that he doesn't simply insist that the concepts of law should he understood plainly in terms of factual, non-moral criteria and that legal system can be put to good uses or bad. According to Hart, law has a social purpose. The fact that some features happen to be common across all the legal systems is not just a coincidence. Hart concedes that they reveal some basic fundamental features of human race.
I read this as part of a faculty reading group. Important ideas, but a difficult read. Hart is a prominent jurisprudence scholar and this book is an essential part of the development of legal thought. I'm glad I read it and participated in discussions with my colleagues, but I'm sure the audience who might find it interesting and helpful is fairly limited.
Definitely the best read in my course on Jurisprudence - it was quite readable and very much a great read for a law student hoping to understand the legal system on a conceptual level.
Libro obligado para la Maestría en Derecho
Not the easiest of reads but an essential book for fans of jurisprudence.
Appreciation and application of the entire Hartian paradigm involves more interpolation and interpretation of Hart than direct quotation from his writings. Was Austin right after all?
Leaving a review on this book is like embarking onto another jurisprudential course. Any succinct summary is open to criticism because of the differences in view.The mutual key that can be agreed upon is that Hart's Concept of Law has changed the course of jurisprudence, steering in a new direction. Providing a fresh new take on jurisprudence. This book, initially was written (generally claimed) for undergraduate students and it serves as a useful guide in identifying the law - c/f what is law?Personal favourite topic is the way Hart handles the 'efficacy and validity' issues.
Really quite excellent refutation of Austinian legal philosophy and a solid analytical framework. The prose is also exquisite despite the dedication to formal logical analysis.It's 50 years old, and a lot has happened in that 50 years, but you can jump right into the fray with this text. Not recommended for anyone looking for some kind of historical treatise on the philosophy of law. This is quite specific--addressed to Kelsen, Austin--and is best read with some knowledge of both.
One of the better philosophy books I have read, I still find that I am not that big of a fan of philosophy. It did a great job of putting legal theory in easy to understand concepts, although ultimately I didn't find his refutation of Austinian legal theory completely convincing. Still, it was an interesting book.(disclaimer: I only read about half of this book, which for a philosophy book is pretty good for me.)
Disappointing. I sort of like the distinction between primary and secondary rules, but how secondary rules are established and receive recognition is not explained, largely because it is a ploy to explain why primary rules receive recognition. Everything else falls apart and I couldn't even tell you what it is Hart is trying to say.
A must read for all law students. I highly recommend to read Laws Empire and Taking Rights Seriously after this book. The critics of Dworkin will help you see this reading from a different light.
A must read for all law students. I highly recommend to read Law´s Empire and Taking Rights Seriously after this book. The critics of Dworkin will help you see this reading from a different light.
It was difficult in the beginning but being that it was compulsory, I had to continue to the end. It was required for my LLB degree. I finally understood as I advanced. All law students should read this book.
John says read before clerkship
قانون
The Concept of Law (Clarendon Law Series) by H. L. A. Hart (1997)
Everyone has to read it sometime, but it turns out it's worth it!
jajaja ¿que es una mesa? jamas lo olvidare jajajajaja
all
Excellent. One of the clearest and best books on the subject.
