https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552494.The_Psychology_of_Man_s_Possible_Evolution
It probably was easier for Ouspensky to show students what he meant in the context of a live lecture than it is on paper, but as he is dead now this is likely to be the first contact most people have with his ideas.
I believe that it is possible to get a great deal from reading this book, but only if one is honest with one’s self about the friction and resistance one experiences while reading it.
The reader will probably not agree with everything Ouspensky says, but the point is to work to Understand it before dismissing it.
Um desses casos peculiares quando lemos um livro onde quase todas as considerações propostas são teorizadas e praticadas há anos pelo leitor que não tinha conhecimento profundo do autor. Presumo que, ao final, todos que baseiam suas vidas na evolução da consciência e a total compreensão do ser cheguem nesse ponto comum e se reconheçam mutualmente no olhar da alma em gozo.
In this book, the psyche is “the soul or spirit” and psychology the means of human evolution to a higher level of awareness and being.
However, we will not advance until we acknowledge that we are machines.
We must undo our machine-like ways before we can become free.
This freeing from the hard-wiring of our natures is possible through inherent abilities to not only comprehend and envision, but to turn these into action.This is a powerful idea, but not a new one: others have written about the need to get away from fixed ideas and preconceptions before we can attain a higher spiritual state.
Ouspensky unfortunately appears to be promoting a "psychological cult," and as happens in all cults, he exalts the method over the goal.
When I read this book I was relieved that it had been expressed.
I had been thinking about these things since I was a little kid and could never express them in an understandable way.
I didn't neccessarily agree entirely with Ouspenky but it was a relief to get some feedback in a way.
He was a student of Gurdjieff who I believe was a mystic and a creator of music and very specific dances which coincide with them.
If you look in the back of the Village Voice you can often find a picture of a crazy looking lady over the ad for a Gurdjieff/Ouspensky study group.
My recent hunger for spiritual books died with this one, because it showed me why spirituality is not a path to follow.(however there are some great techniques and philosophical insights in a lot of schools, but I talk about this some other time).Ouspensky claims that human are machines that have the capacity to be free by becoming consciousness of the mechanics of this machine.
Mr. Immanuel already showed us that for das "ding an sich" one truth prevails: Kant touch this!So if you are in to wishful transcendental thinking beyond the senses: read this book, but I suggest you do something better with your time.
I do find it interesting that many people downgrade this book because it discusses "old ideas" when Ouspensky himself states quite early that the ideas are as old as man, but have been largely forgotten.
Others downgrade it because it is not exhaustive, which fails to take into consideration the intent of the book and the more exhaustive works that Ouspensky has available on this subject.
I digress.As for the book itself, it seems to be a great introduction into Ouspensky's approach to life and inner-development, emphasizing the need to "self-remember" and draw our attention to the various workings of our own machine.
I give it 2 stars because it is short. But the book says nothing new or profound, these ideas have been passed around like all beloved mêmes, just rewritten in a slightly different way. But if you must read Ouspensky then start here because you'll feel better that you didn't waste your time on the thicker books.
Perhaps, the single most influential book I've ever read. Proved to me through my own investigation that its entire foundation was true, leading me to embrace The Fourth Way as my spiritual path in life, and I continue to do so today. Ouspensky was brilliant, the argument simple and breathtaking, for those who have the courage to consider the ramifications.
The only book by Ouspensky that I've read, so far. 5-Star for me.
That someone of Ouspensky's intellectual stature would spend the time to learn and adhere to this system is really the only reason I can recommend this book and this system.He spends a notable number of words discussing human will, and the irony that I enjoyed most was the amount of will it took for me to finish this book.
But it is also strange that Ouspensky invariably referred to Gurdjieff as G, almost as if he, himself, would for some reason prefer to be called "P."
After reading 60 pages into this book it feels like I have wasted my time.
"Memories are only from moments when we are conscious (or glimpses of those moments, because we are not able to be conscious for longer time)." I am not a psychologist and far from this field of study, but I have heard that it is possible to bring forth memories that your consciousness has forgotten under hypnosis therapy, ie bringing forth the subconscious memory.
3. "There are four states of consciousness and we don't possess self-consciousness (third level), only glimpses of it." Yet we have to be conscious in order to be able to realise that we are unconscious.
This book, is a pioneer according to me after the Darwin's evolutionary theory which though is very subjective and lacks empirical understanding in many fields where as this book on psychology of evolution by Ouspensky deals with practical applicability of evolution and states how it's in one's hands to evolve.Book consists of subsequent five lectures on Evolution and it's key role involving consciousness and explaining how we don't know at all about ourselves and believe in the contrary.
It states, and I believe rightly so, that reason for our impulses, desires, motivation governed by so incoherent vibes is that it's a state of delusion and dream.
Everybody believes he's consciousness of his existence where as he is not.
It seemed to me this book said a lot of genuinely new things - not facsimiles of old ideas wrapped a little differently - but truly pioneering and brave thinking, thinking that can only be arrived at by actually having a wide breadth of life-experience and consciously observing oneself and one's reactions through all of it. I will be reading this one again and again.
The edition I read included six lectures. I found the first three to be very interesting and thought provoking, but the book grew increasingly disappointing toward the end; too vague with far-fetched and unsubstantiated assertions.
...make sure to get a copy with "note on the decision to work" at the end...
A quick read, deep philosophy in a tight presentation.
Това трябва да бъде разбрано много ясно: Човек не е способен собствено да прави нищо.
Ако човек разбере това, то той може да узнае повече за самия себе си, а тогава са възможни и определени изменения.
Ние считаме, че да познаем себе си означава да знаем своите особености, желания, вкусове, способности, а в действителност това означава да опознаем себе си като машини, тоест да знаем структурата на своята собствена машина, нейните части, функциите на различните части и условията за тяхната работа.
Не трябва, обаче, да се мисли, че това е лесно и, че е възможно веднага да бъде овладяна тази практика.
A very deep book which might be understood after re-reading.
I look to come back to this again.Some notes from the book:Man does not know himself.He does not know his limitations and his own possibilities.
- manifestations which must be controlled.Other manifestations: Identification & considering.Conditions for development:The first kind consists of interests and attractions created by life itself ; interests of one's health, safety, wealth, pleasures, pride, fame etc.The second kind consists of interests of a different order aroused by ideas which are not created in life but come originally from schools.
a very strange book indeed.
I liked the approach, and it was insightful, but the book itself, the subject and all the knowledge in it were strange.
some insights that resonated with me was the Idea that we do not have full control over our consciousness, it comes and goes.
but every state in us is totally different from another.
then he talks about Esoteric schools and their role in Evolving human being.
his way of explaining human's psychology is totally different than any other way before.
he claims that these finding only possible by careful observation, and schools.
Este es un libro muy interesante sobre un acercamiento a la psicología que ha quedado oculto, sometido por una visión científica del hombre. Lo valioso es la visión de ver a la psicología como el estudio del desarrollo humano, de su evolución.
I believe that some of the ideas are really wrong. The explanation is probably useful didactically, but it is oversimplified and it will get people into trouble. I wish I would be able to do a longer review of it.
4 1/2 stars
I was expecting much more from this book. I have studied Indian Psychology and School of Ashtanga Yog, therefore I am familiar with most of the concepts.
Very clear outline of Fourth Way work.
I'll stick with Krishnamurti.
My goal in reading this was to get a clearer sense of the 4th Way system, as I'm planning on studying Gurdjieff in more depth over the next year (or more).
I've previously read another book that seemed like a more basic overview of the system Ouspensky covers in more detail here, so little was entirely new to me.
The basic goal, of course, is consistent with many traditions, or what the Sufis and guys like Evola would call Tradition.Overall, I pretty much got out of this what I expected to get out of this, and I think it would be a good brief overview for those unfamiliar with the 4th Way and Gurdjieff.
A book every person interested in psychology should read
O livro começou a despertar meu interesse quando fala da compreensão, que não existe compreensão se todos continuam com seus próprios entendimentos.
A contemporaneidade rápida, louca por resultados não permite que o homem encontre o ser iluminado que existe dentro de cada um de nós.
Uma sociedade onde não existe compreensão mútua e todos continuam com seus próprios entendimentos.
A dificuldade de implantação efetiva de um processo de gestão aparece quando vivemos uma realidade utópica onde somos prontos e perfeitos, confiamos que temos tudo sob controle, caímos em nossas próprias armadilhas, escolhemos por viver automaticamente e nem sequer procuramos obter o controle da própria máquina que somos.
But the book "The Psychology of Man's Possible Evolution" didn't deliver.
Definitely enjoyed the premise that human beings are "machines" and that all our dreams and daydreams are "evolutionary waste"...
But then Uspensky goes on and on about "levels" of being, numbered 1 to 7, and I'm thinking dungeons and dragons, and the psychology of man's possible evolution is only hinted at, like, maybe something you could get if you stopped daydreaming and started paying attention to the right people.
Well, I thought I was paying attention to you, Mr. Uspensky...
and so, the possible evolution????
I changed my rating on this book.Went through it again and it has taught me some valuable lessons. It convinced me of the usefulness of meditation where other readings did not. He discusses things that are detrimental that I have discovered during the course of my life such as imagining situations, speaking about a person in a negative light, lying, and talking (instead of listening). I find these are simple, but important rules to live by.There is a not so subtle push towards "centers" that I have a negative reaction to, not sure why.
