https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279246.Political_Theology
It remains a favourite text for more recent theoreticians, especially those with populist and evangelical tendencies, like Steve Bannon, in the United States.For Schmitt, the sovereign, that entity in government beyond which there is no appeal, is “he who decides the exceptions.” That is, the person who can both define what constitutes an exceptional case in law, as well as what the disposition of that case will be, is the foundation of the state.* To understand the import of this claim, one only need contrast it with the governmental philosophy of separation of powers contained in the U.S. constitution.
Back in the 1920’s, Schmitt formulated what is to my mind the most succinct version of the nature of the political in its raw form: “Sovereign is he who decides on the exception.” Such is the first line of the book and the general view of politics.
By ‘exception’, Schmitt means those moments when normal laws and codes of action are thrown out the door, such as, for the U.S., 9/11.
Schmitt is someone everyone ought to read because he provides a precise formulation to what happens when powerful people see themselves as privileged to do with power what they will above and beyond mere laws.
او با رجوع به تفکر سیاسی قرن هفدهم از یک سو و جریان کاتولیک مخالف انقلاب فرانسه از سوی دیگر کسانی را مطرح می کند که به اهمیت تصمیم و محوری بودن وضع استثنایی واقف بوده اند----------------------------------اما نظر من در مورد کتابکتاب کتابی است حقوقی-فلسفی و اولین کتابی است که من در ارتباط با حقوق می خوانم - پس طبیعی است که خیلی حرف ها و ارجاعات را نفهمم ( حتی ارجاع به فلاسفه هم از حیث کارهای حقوقیشان بر من پوشیده است ).
Schwab correctly calls Schmitt; The Hobbes of the 20th century.In this book Schmitt tries to define his concept of the political sovereignty.
He believes that first of all we need to define the 'exception' -not the norm- to grasp the meaning of this concept.
"sovereign is he who decides on the exception." (p.5) All laws are 'situational laws.' Because in the case of emergency there exist no law.
13) At the end of the day, this is the sovereign who decides the right thing to do in the chaos.
"The exception is more interesting than the rule. The rule proves nothing; the exception proves everything: It confirms not only the rule but also its existence, which derives only from the exception. In the exception the power of real life breaks through the crust of a mechanism that has become torpid by repetition." Who said Law can't be well written?
8.5/10-nonfiction
because the circumstance that requires a decision remains an independently determining moment." In short, it is an essential reality about legal and political situations that someone removed from the specific situation must eventually make a decision.
All other political theories try to avoid and disguise this reality in 'comprehensive' legal structures and/or democratic voting systems and/or anarchic rejection of law, but all of these systems fail to deal with radical exceptions properly because none of these systems allows for one person to make an informed and rapid decision for the State when a crisis is looming.
Everyone should read this book, to know its arguments, and to make their own more informed.

A short treatise which is so crammed with great quotes. Schmitt offers an explanation for the development of the state and sovereignty in conceptual terms. The polemical tone of the text, while it greatly enhances the points he at times makes, also means that some observations are not fully explored. Schmitt likes to write tersely, but I think this could have done with being expanded a little bit. Nonetheless, a tour de force.
It's hard to know whether to give this 5 stars or 1 star. It's an incredibly clear headed mediation on the deep problems of liberalism and democratic government. Almost like an instruction manual for aspiring authoritarians.
It is a very helpfull book for our view in political theology
I found a pdf online, skipped the intro (which was almost as long as the text), and I read the whole thing, slowly, in 2-3 hours.Schmitt was recommended to me by good reads, and I have learned that Marcuse was in part writing against him.
This books sounds and feels like it was written by a fascist.
Schmitt envisions the state as a secular religious form.
I do not think it is a one-star book if a person considers that there are some potential insights into the way that a state may be viewed.
However, this is an uncomfortable book.

Sovereign is he who decides on the exception.There exists no norm that is applicable to chaos.
For a legal order to make sense, a normal situation must exist, and he is sovereign who definitely decides whether this normal situation actually exists.All law is "situational law.
Therein resides the essence of the state's sovereignty, which must be juristically defined correctly, not as the monopoly to coerce or to rule, but as the monopoly to decide.
The exception reveals most dearly the essence of the state's authority.
The decision parts here from the legal norm, and (to formulate it paradoxically) authority proves that to produce law it need not be based on law.
Decisions and judgements would always be necessary." (Tracy Strong's forward, xix)"[W]e know that any decision about whether something is unpolitical is always a political decision." (2)"The sovereign is he who decides on the exception." (5)"The exception, which is not codified in the existing legal order, can at best be characterized as a case of extreme peril, a danger to the existence of the state, or the like.
The exception in jurisprudence is analogous to the miracle in theology." (36)"The general validity of a legal prescription has become identified with the lawfulness of nature, which applies without exception.
“Sovereign is he who decides on the exception.”In this slim 66 page volume, Carl Schmitt shatters the belief in the law’s infallible aegis that was offered by liberal political theorists like Locke and Rousseau.
As mere words on a page, the law cannot make decisions when the unexpected appears.
Despite being categorized as a conservative, what Schmitt offers us is a thoroughly humanist perspective, in which the power of the decision is taken back from the bureaucratic juridical order and placed back where it really belongs: To people.

Schmitt argues that sovereignty cannot be possessed by the law or norms, but must, in the ultimate instance, be possessed by man.
It is in the exception that sovereignty is formed.
Schmitt argues that God was present in the world until the rise of Deism (and rationalism), which took God out of the world and turned the 'miracle' into the 'exception' in the natural order (hence the analogy of exception and miracle).
The French Revolution and Deism with their belief in the neutrality of nature and the goodness of 'the people', as well as the constitutive power of the people, leads to a radically different sense.
Schmitt here continues his critique of liberalism, showing that "the political" requires a notion of a sovereign to be meaningful and that this sovereign must have the power of the exception.
This exception is largely rejected by liberalism, however, as it would rather view politics as a science, governed by laws.
The sovereign and the exception are dependent upon a theological framework.
Schmitt shows how liberalism historically transferred theological concepts to the state and then eventually to the people, necessarily deifying them.
Still unsatisfied though, liberalism pushes own towards totalitarianism or anarchy, both of which, according to Schmitt, logically follow from liberalism.
The core idea of this book is so simple and straightforward that it is sufficiently captured in the two most famous passages - the first sentence of the first chapter and the first paragraph of the third chapter.
The rest of the book is just elaboration upon these points in relation to the ideas of various legal theorists and philosophers, notably Hobbes, Rousseau, and the anarchists.
If you're reading this to get a background in Schmitt so that you can use him in your contemporary work, proceed; but if you're just trying to familiarize yourself with his ideas, you don't need to read much of it to get the point.
Three stars for illuminating my understanding of juridical theory and political sovereignty in Weimar Germany. Negative two stars for literally espousing fascism. I look forward to using Schmitt in the future, and was very pleased to read him firsthand after a semester of coming across him in dimly lit footnotes and editorial asides, but Christ, come on. Still--still! Fascinating, compellingly argued, and VERY elegantly written. I can see why Benjamin kept up a correspondence with the guy. Gotta get around to De Maistre some time.
really interesting treatment of executive power. on the eve of political breakdown, of a moment of "exception" for which the written laws offer no remedy, he says the executive needs the freedom to make decisions. problem is, it can go both ways depending on who's in charge. he assumes that the executive respects the rule of law in all other respects, and reluctantly acts to decide on exceptional events. but what if the executive is, like, bush?
Again, like all Schmitt's works, this is a difficult read. I would say it is one of the most difficult of his writings. However, it cements one of the key concepts of his thought: the fundamental nature of theology and politics beyond anything else. To say more without writing ten pages would be insufficient. Read the book, it's fascinating.
If you're a Hobbesian, you owe it yourself to read this. Frequently, and rightly attacked as the foundational intellectual work for totalitarian fascism of the mid-twentieth century. It's important to understand what kind of thinking guides people like Hitler and Mussolini so we can avoid those dangers.
Carl Schmitt's radical decisionism and the State of Exception.Revisiting in 2017 with a reading Group in Brighton..The immanent critique of the work is really, that Schmitt's own emphasis on sovereignty / decision should be conditioned by his historical situation, and yet he seems to insist that the problem of concretisation of rules is transhistorical
Who decides is king. Without a decision the political is lost. The political is the decision. To decide on who decides and when to decide is the foundation stone of any practical realisation of the political...
If it wasn't for my book club I might not have heard of this book. Even though it's definitely not an easy 66 pages of reading material, but the book raises a good argument about what is sovereign and who should have the power to make decisions.
One of the best books I have read on political theory and easily the most readable. Schmitt achieves in just 60 pages something which would take 300 pages in the hands of another scholar or philosopher. His style is so clear and concise, you simply one to read and reread most passages.
Политическая философия в стиле апофатического богословия
yay for throwing out the rules.
