https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56452.Now_Discover_Your_Strengths
(I've read a few of his books at this point and parts of this are drawn from more than one of them.)It takes a lot of hard work and effort over a serious amount of time to really change an aspect of personality, and it likely is not worth it if you're trying to tackle something benign like "I hate public speaking." But some people's 'weaknesses' are serious character defects that cause harm to their friends, families and colleagues, and these folks should absolutely be expected to put the time and effort required into real change.
I learned more about myself from this book and the quiz results than I have in the first twelve months of the program.
When it happens to all of us, when we all feel empowered by the information learned about ourselves, you know that this is a life-altering book.[return][return]I am so thankful that I took the time to read this book for my program.
It was recommended but not required, but I feel I got more out of the quiz results and the list of my top five strengths because I read the book.
The book uses an online personality test called StrengthsFinder (also utilized in other business books) to determine your 5 strongest "themes" of character such as Harmony, Empathy, Activator or Development.
The book uses these by way of Dungeons and Dragons-type perks or skills that make each person unique and gifted in combination with other "themes" and skill sets.Unfortunately, I can't give this book a full score, since these books assume you have purchased the material.
Until I find some way to access StrengthsFinder this book is less than half as beneficial as it would like to be.
The Gallup Organization conducted a survey of over two million people to discover the source of their strengths.
They provide a login for an online survey to "discover" your strengths.
They had identified buckets into which people appeared to plop, and these became convenient descriptors,like Harmony, Futuristic, Restorative, Fairness, or Positivity.The appeal is similar to a How Good Are You in Bed quiz in Cosmopolitan magazine, and about as profound.The only worthwhile insight is the simple but important idea that companies and organizations should build on the strengths of individuals, not try to correct or treat their weaknesses, which will never become strengths.
My strengths, which at first, 1-2 didn't make sense to me, but gradually I saw how they rule my life in every way.
My entire family did this b-c my sister gave us all the books and it made for great holiday discussions and greater understanding and appreciation for our unique strengths.
I also bought the books for all my co-workers and we had a discussion date to understand what each of us brings to our workplace and how we could better position ourselves to utilize our strengths.
Even though it took me a few years to leave my corporate job where I was all about overcoming my weaknesses and go into business for myself to let my strengths shine, I am GLAD I took the plunge.In fact, I am in the midst of preparing a course for those who want to escape a miserable job, be it from Corporate America or any job anywhere - and to create a smart exit strategy, and I am quoting and using this book as a great resource.The book is a great read and a reference for the future too.
My supervisor mentioned this book to me so I started reading it. It also includes a website that you visit to take a strengths finder test which is suppose to help you excel at your job (and for this reason, you should buy the book new so you have the code to use). The idea is rather than focusing on trying to improve your weaknesses, you focus on improving your strengths, resulting in a near perfect performance anytime. I would recommend this book to anyone that wants to learn more about their inner workings.
Авторы в центр своей книги (или теории) ставят фокусирование на сильных сторонах человека и именно на те, что человек часто и с успехом использует (авторы подчёркивают это, как важный фактор).
Также они пишут, как я это понял, что сильные стороны имеют в качестве основных ингредиентов следующие материалы: знания, навыки и талан.
в середине рассматриваемой книги авторы большую её часть посвятят пересказу своей теории, которая была подробно описана в книге «Сначала нарушьте все правила.
И если честно, я не совсем понял, что они хотели сказать этим объединением двух теорий - уж слишком быстро они прошлись, без более чёткого объяснения своей идеи.После того как мы определили всё это, авторы уходят в неструктурированный текст, с одной сплошной водой и пустословием.
I would venture to say, the majority of us, certainly those of us who grew up with post war parents who themselves believed that success in working life and achievement can be measured by the extent to which his has been accomplished.In the meantime, strengths, natural aptitudes, and in most cases the activities that enhance our well being are almost ignored, simply because so much energy goes into working on those weaknesses.When put this simply, none of us should be surprised at the level of unhappiness sustained by a lot of people in their jobs.So, in the face of this general discontent, Marcus Buckingham comes along to shake us up and wake us up.
This book suggests that while we can spend a lot of time trying to fix our weaknesses, we'll never be nearly as successful at that as we will be at improving on our strengths.
I really liked this approach because A) it makes more sense than banging your head against a wall repeatedly (aka trying to fix your weaknesses, which you will probably never be great at) and B) it takes into account the fact that I AM NOT SUPERWOMAN!
And then we can work together, to cover one another's weaknesses and capitalize on each other's strengths.
I got through this quickly since it was an abridged audio version. I may go back & read the full version on my Kindle. I have been researching strengths based movement and approach to leadership recently. There was a lot of good insight here, but the big takeaway for me was the author's comment about incremental improvements. Once you discover your strengths, you can hone them by incremental improvements. It reminds me of Mack Anderson's book, 212 Degrees.  The difference between world class
I got through this quickly since it was an abridged audio version.
I may go back & read the full version on my Kindle.
There was a lot of good insight here, but the big takeaway for me was the author's comment about incremental improvements.
Once you discover your strengths, you can hone them by incremental improvements.
In the same way, you don't need to kill yourself trying to improve your weaknesses.
Just make small incremental changes to improve those areas to defend against failures.
After hammering myself on my weaknesses all my life, this is a very liberating and exciting change.
The premise seems good, but I got this from the library and couldn't take the online assessment.
So then I considered coughing up the $$ to buy the Kindle version (actually Strengths Finder 2.0, since it was the newer test), but the electronic editions apparently don't contain an access code to take the test.
You also can't buy an access code on the web site to take the test.
I have to question how meaningful and relevant the results of the paid assessment would be when Gallup clearly has no idea how to make information available in a meaningful, relevant fashion.
This book should have a disclaimer on it stating you have to buy the book for full price new, or else it's useless.
The whole premise of the book is analyzing your results from their "Strengthsfinder" test, but you don't find this out til halfway through the book.
It takes even longer for you to find out that you are supposed to use the code from inside the dustjacket.
If you get this from the used bookstore, the library, or even brand new and someone else has stolen the code, you've absolutely wasted your time.
Absolutely aggravating and completely makes the book worthless.
Incredible information contained within, quite a paradigm shift and an invaluable contribution to my personal self awareness as well as plans and choices about future life path.
Embora eu acredite muito mais em neuroplasticidade do que o livro apregoa e limita, eu tenho que reconhecer o valor da teoria dos Pontos Fortes e que devemos focar neles.
O Guia Prático no final do livro também tem pontos muito bons para serem implementados em uma organização.
O que mais faz sentido para mim é que temos que nos tornar nota 9 ou 10 onde já somos muito bons e melhorar nos pontos fracos apenas até que eles não sejam limitantes para nós, Exemplo: não sou Analítico mas aprendi a me virar bem nesse campo pois ele é importante para minha função.Recomendo!
I can see that it's backed by some data and therefore the descriptions of strengths and examples of personalities read very convincing.The second - "synthesis" part feels weaker in comparison.
Although I do see that some of the recommendations are being used in today's corporations - broad role salary bands, clearly defined performance objectives, regular one-on-ones with managers etc.Also, authors compare their test to "industry placement" career tests and claim that Strength test does not peg a person into any field while standard career tests do.
Perhaps once authors collect enough data on the companies they helped, they can produce a better book with the real recommendations to both companies and individuals...
Strengths, which are a combination of talent, knowledge, and skills, are based on different 34 "themes", and you take a test (which I haven't taken yet) to determine your top 5 themes.
Our idea is that a good employee is well-rounded, so we have to improve their weaknesses.
The authors disagree--you improve your strengths as much as you can, and just keep your weaknesses out of the way.
Don't spend a lot of time trying to improve what will never be a strength for you.
Really interesting, and a great read for those still trying to figure out their right path!
As the premise of the book (it is more effective to build on people's strenghts than to try to correct perceived weaknesses) appealed to me I did buy a new copy.
But when I read through all of them I realised that my most dominant strenght had not come out of the test.
Therefore I would advise to read all the talent descriptions and narrow down the ones you feel apply best to you; you don't actually need to take the online test, in my opinion.
Only the section that specified how managers should deal with people with different dominant talents was mildly interesting.
Clifton is a brilliantly crafted book which can answer these questions or at least shed some light into answers you wanted so badly.On the upside, I loved the test that I could take to get to know my personality and yes, it reinforced my beliefs about who I am.But on the downside, I detested the all times the sales pitch that was so prevalent throughout the book.
He being the authority should have done so in a much more forceful manner.Overall, given both the good, bad and ugly, I felt this book is a must read as it sheds light into knowing ourselves more distinctly and with more accuracy.Overall ratings - 7/10
That book takes a relatively simple set of ideas, and as is typical in business books, spins it out to 250 pages of repetitive and unnecessary content.
I got both books from a manager, so it took me some time to get around to reading them :)This book has far less concrete content than the first.
In my case none of the strengths seemed surprising, and the book contained little practical advice about what to do with them next other than to focus on them.I do think there is a valuable point here, and it's great for managers to absorb this perspective.
Philosophically, I believe in the message this book expounds, namely to focus on strengths - or what you one is good at - versus trying to overly improve weaknesses...
however, I found the book a bit dry.
Then, if you are convinced you need to know what your top five strengths are, you will have to take the book's survey - which is only accessible via a code found in new copies.
Rated 1 Star for being almost useless as the USED condition. The StrengthsFinder test code was invalid / already used.UPDATE! I MADE MY OWN TEST!!! :)http://richardstep.com/2011/07/20/str...====================I skimmed the rest of the book with the "hey, I can't take the test" idea in mind and could pretty clearly see how the test was the main focus of this book.I ripped out Chapter 4 (describing the types), and chunked the book.====================Hope ya'll that bought the book new had a better experience! :)Found it for $1 at the Salvation Army.
Довольно много воды, но тем не менее, очень интересно читать. Основная идея: для того чтобы преуспеть в какой-либо области, нужна комбинация "талант+знания+умения". Задача каждого - выявить свои таланты и не зарывать их в землю:) Для определения ваших личных талантов нужно пройти онлайн тест, код прилагается к книге. У меня была аудиоверсия, поэтому тест пока пройти не удалось, и на амазоне эту книгу для киндла тоже временно не продают. Но все равно интересно узнать, какие же у меня таланты, так что буду держать руку на пульсе.
This is the "Linda Goodman's Handbook for Managers and HR types", which instead of saying "An Aquarius is assertive and charming and hence makes for a good salesman", tweaks it to talk about "Strength Themes" and "Excellence". It basically communicating the truth we all know that "All employees are unique" and hence "please read our totally generic, impossible to implement ways to maximize their potential". Sarcasm aside, the book does touch upon some very good points on why large, archaic orgnaizations make a fool of themselves when it comes to talent management.
Generally good stuff to consider and implement in organizations, especially those with teams doing specific tasks. Keep in mind that after taking the assessment, you're not going to be given a perfect formula for near perfect performance or where you should be working. The purpose of the book is to help identify your top 5 themes and give you some traction on finding places to use them. At the end of the day, you still have to do some self-reflection and assess if you're using your strengths.
This was a very good and informative book. But it will be difficult for most people to read because you will immediately see all your company is doing wrong which leads you down a path of pondering why you are working for them. But I genuinely appreciated the well-researched ideas. I liked learning what my strengths are and I am now paying attention to how I can use them in my current position.
Cruising the Internet for the past hour I found that people have quite different views of values (what is valuable) and often confuse them with strengths. This book won't help you much with the definitions. In fact, if you haven't paid for the strengthsfinder questionnaire--say, if you got this as a library book--then you will find little value in reading (or listening). In fact, it seemed like hours of my time invested in an advertisement.
This isn't the easiest of the Strengths Finder books to get through (try 2.0 if you just want an overview), but it did give the most detailed explanations for how and why the process was created. Interesting and worthwhile read for those interested in Strengths development and how to create a happier, more effective workplace.
What's not to love about a book that pigeonholes you, tells you to go ahead and neglect your weaknesses, and limits your strengths to five imaginary categories? The only thing that could make this book better would be having to reflect on your computer-generated strengths every other week for two years. (Is bitterness mentioned in the theoretical framework?)
Amazing book. EVERY COMPANY SHOULD READ THIS BOOK.Imagine a whole new type of job evaluation that focuses on rewarding and unleashing every person's strengths.The profound impact this could have on millions of people is mind blowing.Brilliant. Essential. Revolutionary.
