https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/930193.The_Crooked_Hinge
Every now and then he wrote one that wasn't up to his usual astonishingly high standard -- I remember The Arabian Nights Murder (1936) as being a bit tiresome and mediocre -- but this is the first I've read that I'd describe as bad.It's one of a bunch of novels that seem inspired by the Tichborne Claimant case -- others include Josephine Tey's Brat Farrar (1949) and Robin Maugham's The Link: A Victorian Mystery (1969).
Loved the setup and the plot-idea. This one is easily the most readable Carr after The Hollow Man.
but i was wrong and am now forever saddled with the shame of having been looking for a killer monkey.i also have the feeling that this entire book will have faded from memory within a week and a half or so, leaving only a vague sense of two starness...
much like carr's The Burning Court, which i read last year and also really enjoyed and gave four stars to and now can't remember a single page of, except a vague memory of a woman's reflected image...BUT CHECK OUT THAT GREAT PURPLE COVER!!
Carr and his 'impossible crime' novels are one of a kind.PLOT=4: John Farnleigh is comfortably established, with his wife Molly, on a massive family estate.
A man shows up (for the sake of confusion, he's called Patrick Gore) and Gore states he is the real John Farnleigh and that as young boys, they had traded places during the sinking of the Titanic.
But as I've mentioned, the strengths of this story aren't its characters, but the multiple innuendoes that served as morsels for thought and in turn invited the readers to provide their two pennies after the author laid down his, I suppose, through the events and actions that unfolded in his work.The title is one such example, although in the story it was spoken of in the literal context only.
In our own eyes and the people who love us, our actions might be justifiable, but our crooked hinges might be noticed only by a different perspective as only a neutral observer might have.
Three stars, I guess, but maybe another half star because it is pretty readable.As other readers have pointed out, this is a complex plot and utterly "un-guessable." There are so many twists and turns that it is hard to keep on track, or recall other seemingly minor details mentioned earlier which become important later on.The plot is ingenious, for sure, but there are too many themes: who is the real John Farnleigh, Satanism, 19th century deceptive automatons, and probably more.
I would have enjoyed this more if the plot had stayed on the question of determining which Lord Farnleigh was the authentic one.As usual, Gideon Fell plays a somewhat understated role.
None of the characters are especially well-developed.
Still, this was at least sort of fun, and worth reading if one is curious about the history of the mystery novel.
This is one of those creaky, old-fashioned Brit mysteries featuring Satanism, spinsters, a Golden Hag, automatons, amputees, imposters and false claimants, fright masks, Thumbographs, and escapes from the Titanic. Even so, I can't recommend it unreservedly. I have a feeling Carr might be the poor man's Wilkie Collins. What I can recommend unreservedly is the terrific purple cover art.
Two people claim to be the heir of a large estate.
However the one who is currently occupying the position ends up getting killed in the most mysterious way.
It also seems that people are entranced by past ghosts and a past murder of a woman in the area.
This is one crazy entwined murder mystery.
I’m not even going to try and go into the plot here as it seemed to rely on both what happened and the personalities of the people it involved.
Would not call this exactly fair play either, but a very strange and interesting read all the same.
Murray ist in Gefahr, doch als im Farnleigh-Garten ein Mord geschieht, ist nicht Murray das Opfer.Neben Der verschlossene Raum ist Die Tür im Schott wohl John Dickson Carrs berühmtester Roman und erzählt ebenfalls die Geschichte eines unmöglichen Verbrechens, welches sich allerdings diesmal unter freiem Himmel und nicht in einem hermetisch abgeriegelten Raum ereignet.Von Anfang an erzeugt Carr eine wunderbar dichte Atmosphäre, wirft den Leser gleich in die Mitte des Geschehens und gibt ihm ein, zwar auf den ersten Blick etwas abgedroschenes aber durchaus faszinierendes Rätsel auf.
This novel is plotted with fiendish ingenuity, like so many of Carr's stories, and written with a formidable precision.
Carr always sacrificed characterisation to plot.
So his characters have the lacklustre functionality of pawns upon a chess board.
I suspect that Carr had an IQ as high as that of Austin Freeman, and both of them were more intelligant than Conan Doyle.
But Carr was a lesser author than either of them.
Doyle's and Freeman's characters (at least, in Freeman's Dr Thorndyke novels) are rounded individuals; Carr's are cardboard cutouts.
All these authors, in their ways, were creative geniuses.
I must say this book was a terrible disappointment.I don't necessarily mind bad crime/detection stories.
I however strongly mind stories that cheat.
And, as a detective story writer myself, I have trained myself to look for throwaway clues - seemingly minor things that are actually significant - and this book has them in plenty.
It went on for one more chapter in which it introduced a hitherto never mentioned and extremely significant point, something that changes everything including the identity of the killer...and makes those throwaway clues irrelevant.
This was my second Carr and after the comedy of errors named Blind Barber,this one felt like a 5 sta
This is, by far, one of the most riveting works of detective fiction (almost like the Trout Mask Replica of the B-movie side of the genre) that I have had the chance to read. Yeah, the dodgy psychoanalyses and the spooks are dated, but they are delightfully so. And the pacing is so perfect that the entire thing can be read in a 2-3 hour time span.
Great book. A lot of twists and turns, and compelling throughout. It is justifiably listed as one of the best impossible crime novels.
A wonderful tale full of suspense and (nearly) horror, yet also funny in the way Carr is the very master! You are given all the hints, but never guess it untill the end, which is original and funny!
This may be the complete prototypical English drawing room murder mystery.
This was enjoyable and a definite page-turner, but altogether too fantastical for my tastes.
One of Mr Carr’s finest in my view. This is up there with The Judas Window and The Hollow Man. An ingenious impossible crime with a satisfying solution.
Uno dei più bei gialli di JDC: è davvero eccitante leggere questo autore nella consapevole certezza che la spiegazione finale mi lascerà senza fiato!
#6 on the 13 Best Non-Supernatural Horror Novels list by KEW is The Crooked Hinge by John Dickson Carr.
A lawyer, Nathaniel Burrows, has been called in to represent a member of the local gentry, one Sir John Farnleigh.
Someone else has appeared on the scene claiming to be the real John Farnleigh.
The Crooked Hinge was published in 1938 when finger prints were routinely used to identify someone.Since the author was the master of the locked room mystery, there is a murder at the beginning of the book.
Book #8 in the Gideon Fell series, and I think the best one to date.
He does do one thing at the end that I don't like, but it's practically a Gideon Fell trademark.
At the end of each book, Fell takes an entire chapter to lay out a well-reasoned, well-supported case against the alleged murder—and then says, "Gotcha!
Dr. Fell never likes to offer up a murderer to the gallows.
Still, I love Carr, I love Dr. Fell, and this is the best Fell book yet.
Twenty-five years ago John Farnleigh, the heir to the baronetcy of Mallingford and Sloane, then a young and wild boy exiled to America, survived the sinking of the Titanic.
Another man has just shown up also claiming to be John Farnleigh, explaining that, as boys, the two men had switched identities as the ship was sinking.
The key to solving the mystery lies with an old set of fingerprints taken by Farnleigh’s tutor.
Fortunately, Dr. Gideon Fell, an amateur sleuth with a knack for solving impossible crimes, happens to be staying at the local pub.
JDC is a wonderful writer from the Golden Age of detection who isn't as well known as he should be in the UK, mainly because he's not been in print here since the days of green and white Penguins - in fact, before Amazon, I read most of his books in the yellow 'plume' French editions, because that was the only way to get hold of them.
JDC is an expert plotter, a master of misdirection, and in his creepier books his atmosphere is wonderful.
Upon finishing my last John Dickson Carr, I decided I felt like reading some fantasy.
However, despite the fact that the fantasy novel I'm reading is enchanting, I immediately missed Dickson Carr.
So now I'm reading several books at once.This is exactly the kind of novel I want from him: There are two claimants to an English estate, both saying they are the same man, and while their fingerprints are checked by a third party, one of them ends up dead by a seemingly impossible murder; while witnesses watch from the windows the victim seemingly has his throat cut by an invisible perpetrator.
Again, I had a mixed-up memory of this book (happens so often with mysteries: I've read so many and many of those so long ago)in which I remembered the denouement but had it completely (I guess) confused with another plot in a different mystery by the same author.
Didn't remember the basic plot of this book at all, except for the final device.
For fans of tricky mysteries, lovers of puzzles, and those who just like a light but literate read, this is a great book by a master of his craft.
The book starts with a fairly simple puzzle of identities and then after few pages in comes the murder.
a lot of clues here and there keeps the interest alive in the reader.
i was not bored by the book at any point as there was a lot of things happening.
At the end of the book author gives a final touch of his twist.
A good mystery overall.
I dont know why i can't give this a 5 star rating.
a personal judgement.
or maybe a personal error.
but it has the potential of a 5 star read.
A claimant arrives at an estate in 1930's Kent, calling the resident titleholder a fake and stating that HE is the real heir to the property; both men have amazingly detailed knowledge of things that only the real heir would know. The complex mystery that follows involves a witch-cult, the sinking of the Titanic, and a decaying automaton. Impossible-crime mysteries are best when they're spooky and this definitely delivers - Carr's taste for the bizarre gives the proceedings a weird atmosphere. Fantastic.
Ignore the two-star reviews: this is an utter masterpiece of 1930s mystery fiction. Everything--atmosphere, characterization, plotting, pacing, suspense, puzzle--are top drawer. Carr often strains for melodramatic effect, but this one is genuinely and effortlessly creepy. Excellent Titanic backstory as well. Those who have read Poe's nonfiction may have an advantage in anticipating Fell's solution. And it is wrong to state, as some do, that the hag is just there for atmisphere -- it is actually a vital clue to the final revelation.
I don't know another mystery writer so poor at character who's so good at atmosphere.
Spooky atmosphere, that is.
Anytime he tries to be funny--and after about 1945 he tried really hard--he's terrible.
Not a big fan of his historical novels, or of the overheated Poe of the early stuff, either.
But I love the locked-room puzzles, and this has an assortment of them, along with at least two scenes that creep me out good, plus a great title, better characterization than usual, and an automaton.
My rating is based on all his others--I think this is his best.
For non-fans, give it three stars.

