https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93724.Twilight
NEW UPDATE: 17th APRIL, 2013.The Mediator Series has been optioned to be made into a movie!!Here's what Meg updated!https://www.facebook.com/megcabot/pos..........................................................10 FUCKING STARS. THIS IS ONE OF MY FAVORITE SERIES. <3 .......................................................YOU GUYS, YOU GUYS.MEG CABOT IS WRITING THE 7TH BOOK FOR THE MEDIATOR SERIES.https://twitter.com/megcabot/status/2...https://twitter.com/megcabot/status/2...https://www.facebook.com/mediatorbook...I HAVE ALL THESE FEELS. OMFG. SO FUCKING HAPPY!MEG CABOT.*DEAD*
OMG I CAN'T EVEN
you know I'm actually smiling right now because, if you were here you'd probably get all mad and say , "Susannah.
I wouldn't have met you Jesse.
But then I met you Jesse, the real you.
But even though I would never have actually known you I'd know in my heart that their was someone that I was wupposed to meet.
So I'd be waiting for that person all my life, and never have met him.
So I would never, ever, ever be able to be in an actual relationship with someone because I would know that that person is not you.
For some reason, this is the book I remembered the most from my first read through. I really enjoyed my reread of this series overall. It's not a perfect series - the writing is a bit juvenile - but it's a whole lot of fun. I would recommend it for anyone who wouldn't get hung up on the writing and wants a breezy series.
When our heroine learns about a new power she has her love is greatly tested. Will she do the right thing or will she choose what makes her happy?  Good story with lots of action.
(view spoiler)[Yes, kinda, medium.Even though Suze is officially dating Jesse and they love each other, Paul wants her too – and the way she responds is kinda confusing to me as the audience.
I feel like the way Suze responds to Paul is tbh annoying.
Tbh I hated him so much throughout this whole thing, and honestly hated Suze more for how weak she was with him – and lenient when he was a douchebag – like he literally stole money from a family in need when he’s rich AF already.
ทำไมอานจบแลวรูสึกเฉยๆ ปกติอานตอนจบนิยายชุดไหนทีมันมีหลายๆเลมแบบนี เราจะตองรูสึกราวกับตัวเองโดนความอีพิคถลมทับ ปลืมปริมประหนึงตอนดูแฮรรีครบแปดภาคแลวถึงกับนำตาไหลตอนเฮอรไมโอนีกอดแฮรรีตอนทีเขาจะไปหาโวลเดอรมอร แตนีเราวามันเปนตอนจบทีดูเหมือนจะขาดอะไรไป คือตัดจบแบบหวนๆไปหนอย อยากเหนทังคูอยูดวยกันมากกวานีงะ แตกไมเปนไร เมือคิดถึงเรืองบทสรุปทีคลายปมออกมาไดดี แมเราจะคิดวาระหวางเรืองมีคาแรคเตอรของพอลนีแหละทีเราวามันดูหลุดๆ แรงจูงใจกดูแปลกๆ ทะแมงๆยังไงกไมรู โทนเรืองเรากวาดรอปลงจากสองเลมทีแลวอยูหนอยนา เจสซีใ
ทำไมอ่านจบแล้วรู้สึกเฉยๆ ปกติอ่านตอนจบนิยายชุดไหนที่มันมีหลายๆเล่มแบบนี้ เราจะต้องรู้สึกราวกับตัวเองโดนความอีพิคถล่มทับ ปลื้มปริ่มประหนึ่งตอนดูแฮร์รี่ครบแปดภาคแล้วถึงกับน้ำตาไหลตอนเฮอร์ไมโอนี่กอดแฮร์รี่ตอนที่เขาจะไปหาโวลเดอร์มอร์ แต่นี่เราว่ามันเป็นตอนจบที่ดูเหมือนจะขาดอะไรไป คือตัดจบแบบห้วนๆไปหน่อย อยากเห็นทั้งคู่อยู่ด้วยกันมากกว่านี้ง่ะ แต่ก็ไม่เป็นไร เมื่อคิดถึงเรื่องบทสรุปที่คลายปมออกมาได้ดี แม้เราจะคิดว่าระหว่างเรื่องมีคาแรคเตอร์ของพอลนี่แหละที่เราว่ามันดูหลุดๆ แรงจูงใจก็ดูแปลกๆ ทะแม่งๆยังไงก็ไม่รู้ โทนเรื่องเราก็ว่าดรอปลงจากสองเล่มที่แล้วอยู่หน่อยนา เจสซี่ในเล่มนี้บทบาทก็แลดูไม่เด่นเท่ากับพอลเลย สังเกตว่าทั้งในหัวของซูซนี่ คิดถึงเรื่องพอลเกินกว่า 50% ได้ละมั้งในช่วงแรกของหนังสือคือแบบ...คิดว่าสองเล่มก่อนหน้าเหมือนปูเนื้อเรื่องมาดีๆและก็พีคขึ้นเรื่อยๆอยู่นะ พอมาเล่มนี้เหมือนกับมันสะดุด... ตั้งแต่ครึ่งแรกของเล่มละที่สงสัยว่านางเอกจะทำแบบนั้นไปทำไม ดูไม่ค่อยมีเหตุผลบางครั้ง ส่วนพอลเราก็ว่ามีอะไรบางอย่างทะแม่งๆอยู่ เหมือนวางคาแรคเตอร์มาไม่เนียนเลยเล่มนี้ แต่ก็โอเค...เป็นหนังสืออีกชุดที่อ่านเพลินๆ ฆ่าเวลาได้ดี แม้ว่าเราจะไม่ได้ชอบไปซะทุกเล่ม แต่ก็มีบางเล่มที่เราคิดว่าคุ้มค่าต่อการอ่านอยู่นะสรุปว่าเรียงลำดับความชอบนะ 4 > 5 > 6 > 1 > 3 > 2(view spoiler)[ซูซานน่าห์และพอลสามารถหาวิธีที่จะเดินทางย้อนเวลาเพื่อทำให้เจสซี่ไม่ถูกฆ่าได้ แต่การจะทำเช่นนั้นหมายความวว่าเจสซี่จะไม่ตาย และเขาจะไม่กลายเป็นวิญญาณ ดังนั้นซูซก็จะไม่รู้จักกับเขาอีกเลยในโลกปัจจุบันของเธอ ดังนั้นจึงเป็นเรื่องที่ตัดสินใจยากว่าจริงๆแล้วซูซจะสามารถปล่อยเจสซี่ไปได้หรือไม่ จนเมื่อพอลคิดจะย้อนเวลากลับไปคนเดียวเพื่อยับยั้งไม่ให้ดิเอโกฆ่าเจสซี่ นั่นทำให้ซูซต้องเดินทางย้อนเวลาไปเพื่อสกัดพอลเช่นเดียวกันซูซได้พบกับเจสซี่ในยุคอดีต เขาไม่มีความทรงจำเกี่ยวกับเธออยู่เลย ดังนั้นซูซจึงต้องโน้มน้าวให้เจสซี่เชื่อเธอให้ได้ว่าเธอมาจากอนาคตและจะมาช่วยไม่ให้เขาถูกดิเอโกฆ่าภายในคืนนี้ หลังจากที่เจสซี่เชื่อเธอ ซูซก็สามารถที่จะตัดสินใจเพื่อที่เจสซี่จะได้ไม่ต้องตายและได้ใช้ชีวิตแบบมนุษย์ธรรมดาของเขาต่อไปแทนที่จะกลายมาเป็นวิญญาณอายุร้อยห้าสิบปี แม้ว่านั่นจะหมายถึงการที่เธอไม่ได้พบกับเขาอีกเลยก็ตามหลังจากที่กำจัดดิเอโกแล้ว การเดินทางย้อนเวลากลับผิดพลาด ทำให้ร่างของเจสซี่ตัวจริงเดินทางติดมากับซูซยังโลกปัจจุบันด้วย เมื่อวิญญาณของคนๆเดียวกันไม่สามารถที่จะอยู่ในที่เดียวกันพร้อมกันได้ เจสซี่ที่มีหน้าหนังจึงใกล้ตายทุกที จนกระทั่งวิญญาณของเจสซี่ที่ซูซรู้จักได้มาปรากฏตัวและกลับคืนเข้าสู่ร่างเดิมของเขา นั่นจึงทำให้ซูซได้เจสซี่ของเธอกลับคืนมาแบบคนเป็นๆในที่สุด... (hide spoiler)]
Re-read 5/26/17: I will always and forever love this series with all of my heart. Aside from Harry Potter this is the series that really kick-started my reading as a youngster, and my love for it is eternal. Also: Jesse gives Michael Moscovitz a run for his money as my number one book bae, which is a Big Deal. I'M A HAPPY LADY!
I would give this a 1 star but she did redeem herself in a very slight way at the end, so I'll give it that star, begrudgingly.Serious spoiler, book is ruined if you read this so don't if you haven't read it, warning has been issued.(view spoiler)[ How in the HELL can you go on and on about how much you LOVED your father and how horrible it was when he died and how much it tore you and your mother apart BUT when you get a chance to possibly save him from dying and have him ALIVE and back in your life, you don't because if you do you will never get to meet your GHOST boyfriend!
3.5
Actual review rating: 4.5 starsIn the sixth instalment of the Mediator series Suzie is forcefully studying her talents with fellow mediator Paul due to their agreement to protect Jesse.
Cabot did a good job of setting the scene for the reader and you could really picture the contrast of the past and future Pine Crest Road.I do slightly wish that Suzie's dad was involved in this series a little more, I loved his role at the end of this book but I do think I would have felt more overwhelmed by what he did if I felt more of a connection to his story.Heaven Sent was an amazing end to Jesse and Suzie's story.
I can honestly say that Twilight was the best book in The Mediator series.
I loved the way she ended The Mediator and this book had more suspense and laughs than its predecessors.
But the lure of learning more about what it means to be a shifter and the desire to keep Jesse safe from Paul's devious plans has Suze getting "mediator lessons" from her worst enemy.
So that he'll never become the ghost who loves Suze.Twilight had added suspense because this time the stakes were so high.
The fact that Suze is alive and Jesse is dead was really unique and I enjoyed that throughout the whole series.
It ended exactly the way you think its going to end, but it was fun reading it nevertheless.My major problem with this series is the swearing.
I know Suze is supposedly from Brooklyn, but I don't care, its a book for entertainment...
Also, the fact that she is obsessed with guys is normal for her age, but I don't like the fact that all these teenagers think that saving sex is old fashioned and ridiculous.
Suze is in love with an 150-year-old ghost.
Things aren't easy for them, considering nobody else can see or feel Jesse.
Paul is convinced he can go back in time and save Jesse from dying, so he and suze will never meet.
When this plan is proved possible, Suze goes into panic mode.
She goes back to stop Paul from saving Jesse.
When the real, non-ghost Jesse comes along, she realized how he died was wrong...
If it was ment to be it will come back to you." When she tries to go back to the future she accidently brings Jesse's body back with her.
This last book is an astounding grand finale for "The Mediator" series! Very well planned and written! A masterpiece indeed! The ending is perfect! When I read it, I couldn't forget it! I'm so glad at the same time sad, for it's done. Over all, it's a beautiful book! A perfect love story everyone will love! It's a kind of love story, whoever will read it, will never forget it! I want to thank Meg Cabot for writing such a novel! She inspired me!
20 pages in, and I'm already enraged at Paul. I quit. I am so done with this series. Literally all it took to ruin this series for me was a pushy, invasive, patronizing, borderline rapey son of a bitch. I can't stand him. So I'm out. I quit. It was fun while it lasted but I am so done.
While I thoroughly enjoyed this book, I am so glad this was not the end to the series and Meg decided to write Remembrance.
I cannot wait to start it because there were more loose ends than I remember.
Not that it wasn't a great book because it was.
But I just wanted a smudge more closure.I loved getting to know Jesse in the past, and of course more Paul is always good news for me!
I just want Paul to be happy!!
Maybe.This book focused mostly on Suze, Jesse, and Paul.
I can't wait to see the reunion in Remembrance!!
WOW WOW WOW. I LOVE LOVE LOVE THIS SERIES. Enough said.
I really was very curious about how this was going to resolve since I knew I had the right ship, and while it's very easy, I am also very okay with it.Paul is still the worst.P.S. I missed Sleepy.
The romantic in me loved the happy ending, but not as much as I would have had Suze not been so irritating for most of the story.Hopefully she'll have grown up some in the adult continuation of the series, starting with the short story Proposal next.Previous book reviews:✦ Haunted (The Mediator, #5)✦ Darkest Hour (The Mediator, #4)✦ Every Girl's Dream (The Mediator, #3.5)✦ Reunion (The Mediator, #3)
100 stars because this was just as good as I remembered and brought back so many happy teenage memories!
Ende der Reihe 😢
Suze has got to find a way to stop Paul from hurting her ghost boyfriend, Jesse.
Making it so Suze will have never met Jesse, the love of her life.Ever since the day Susannah Simon moved to Carmel, California, she's been living with a ghost in her bedroom.
Suze has got to find a way to keep Paul from shifting back to the past because it would mean Jesse would have never died and Suze would have never met the love of her life.The setting of The Mediator series and Twilight takes place in Carmel, California.
I think it might’ve been the first time I’ve binge read a series.
Because we all know time travel is a very strange thing thanks to the Doctor, and it’s better to NOT try to make it logical.Twilight ties up the series very nicely.
So nicely in fact, that when I heard there was going to be a new book, I was a little nervous.Because Twilight ends just perfectly.That last chapter, every single time I read it I just tear up.
Cliff Hanger: NoTriggers: n/aRating: 3.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  6Plot: 7Characters: 7World Building: 6Flow:  6Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 8Total: 7In DepthBest Part: The ending!Worst Part: Paul.
Thoughts Had: Wonder where this will go!ConclusionContinuing the Series: YesRecommending: YesShort Review: Poor Jesse, I feel like Paul and Suze are fighting over Jesse.
Paul drops to new lows in this book, drugging his gpa is part of that, tisk tisk.
Since Pauls' gpa went all crazy about how traveling in time takes from you, they better show some of that next book or i will be very mad!
The ending both made me happy and sad.
Jesse=happy, her father=sad :/ Misc.
I couldn't leave the book to go to sleep so I read it 'til 2am.
It was definitely worth my sleep :PI love the book.
I love Jesse.(haha of course, who wouldn't anway?)and it made me laugh like a crazy person the part where he asked "Soose?".
The series end well, which I like a lot.
Throughout the books of the series, I couldn't figure out a way that Jesse and Suze could get together so I thought it would have a sad ending.
It turned out it ended very well.I'm so in love with this series.Jesse and Suze forever!
The conclusion to an otherwise great series left a lot to be desired despite its happy ending.
I often thought Paul's introduction brought this series down a notch.
I didn't like that Paul's previous involvement in trying to kill/hurt her and her friends was sort of glossed over and Cabot had Suze lusting after him despite his obvious psychopathic tendencies.
Really disappointing.Also, it's hard to get time traveling right and Meg Cabot should've left it alone.
There were too many holes in that one that I couldn't really be satisfied with the ending.
Great series! Great ending! I had a few tears even! Once I knew she could time travel I kind of expected this ending and was surprised Suze didn't think of it herself instead of by accident. Glad we got to see everything work out afterwards and the author didn't just cut it off like some do as soon as you could guess what followed. Beautiful way to end the book. I wish there was more!
I read books 1-6 as a teenager and remember falling in love with it. This brings back so much nostalgia that I want to re-read all the series with book 7 since I didn't know there was one. I love Suze and Jesse. This was the first book series of Cabot that made me want to read her other books.
Suze and Jesse are dating and making out and being cute and making my feels go everywhere.
And then we're on a mission: stop Paul from going back in time to save Jesse.
And he ran through fire for her!Then Suze accidentally brings him back to the future and it's just like OMG.
When Suze is at the dance with Jesse and she sees her dad off to the side.
Suze is finally happy and that's what was keeping him there all this time and it just hits me with the feels.
37: Jesse is Suze's home, I cry :')pg.
