https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414773.The_Sociological_Imagination
But if social science is a science – and a lot of this book goes over that dead and sterile debate and so on, but in interesting ways at least – then we expect sciences to have both theories and methods.
Mills is more of a questions, than an answers sort of guy – best to be one of those if you possibly can – and so a lot of this book is devoted to looking at the kinds of questions sociology ought to ask and some of the ways that it might be worthwhile seeking out answers to those questions.
Yazılmasının üzerinden neredeyse 60 yıl geçmiş ve bu süreçte akademi alanında önemli değişiklikler gerçekleşmiş olmasına rağmen, Mills'in sunduğu perspektifin temel unsurları hala geçerliliğini koruyor.Kitap sosyal bilim felsefesinden sosyal bilimlerde çalışma tarzlarına kadar uzanan çok geniş bir alanı taradığı için, kısa bir özet sunmak mümkün değil.
Oysa bir sosyal bilimci kendini toplumsal mücadelelerden ne kadar uzak tutarsa tutsun, yaptığı ve söylediği her şey zorunlu olarak, onun isteğinden bağımsız olarak bu mücadelede bir yer işgal eder.4.
İyi bir sosyal bilimci bu yapay bölünmelerin kölesi olmaz.
It seems Mills warns against such applied research in his detailing of liberal and illiberal practicalities.
He feels those of liberal practicality tend to "think in terms of situations" and fail to challenge the status quo (p.
Those of illiberal practicality tend to be actually working within the bureaucratic system only focusing on the problems "chosen" by those with great power within the system (p.
Is it possible to be a sociologist working to change status quo through applied research?
The Sociological Imagination is a term coined by Mills to describe the way that good sociologists view a problem and the possible solutions.
He suggests that we view everything through the intersection of history, biography, and sociology, and that we multidisciplinary approaches to finding solutions for sociological problems.
It's a hard read at first, and you start of kind of hating Mills and thinking he's an arrogant sod, but by the time I got to the solution chapters, I had begun to "get it" and when I finished the last chapter I wanted to pump my fist in the air and join the revolution.
It gives a prescription for how to view problems and solutions within society, instead of assuming that they exist in a vacuum.
In this book, Mills criticizes the two dominant methods of studying sociology (grand theory and abstracted empiricism), and then goes on to delineate the sociological imagination—a way of studying society that factors in historical, political and individual factors, that does not get too lofty with grandiose theories and abstractions nor too mired in the numbers and statistics of abstracted empiricism.
… Such is the role of mind, of study, of intellect, of reason, of ideas: to define reality adequately and in a publicly relevant way.
The educational and the political role of social science in a democracy is to help cultivate and sustain public and individuals that are able to develop, to live with, and to act upon adequate definitions of personal and social realities.”
There's a scene early in Crime of Passion (1957, Barbara Stanwyck, Sterling Hayden, Raymond Burr) when a newspaper advice columnist named Kathy (Stanwyck), a self-confident, independent, unmarried dame, is trying to cover a story about a woman who has killed her husband.
Only men are doing the important things, becoming sociologists, becoming academics, studying the bureaucratic ethos, researching Weber and Parsons and Veblen, earning salaries.
I'm not a sociologist, but I have read enough sociology (Weber, Veblen, Durkheim, others) to sustain at least a vague interest in it, and I couldn't manage that here.
The first chapter is what is most often read and/or assigned, but I think it continues to be one of the best statements defining sociology and a sociological perspective.
are also worth reading, but the first chapter 'The Promise' is perhaps the most important and also mostly commonly cited by contemporary sociologists.Mills' description of the way in which Americans tend to perceive problems as emanating from the individual - rather than considering larger, structural forces at play - captures the predominance of reductionist thinking in American society.Just as timely today as it was over fifty years ago, it continues to be an excellent introduction to the discipline of sociology and how to think sociologically.
When i read the opening chapters on grand theory and abstracted empiricism, I was thinking it a 'theoretical' and 'methodological' exercise in critique - and considered as such it is a bit limited; hardly breaking sweat for Mills to take apart the grand theory of Parsons or the abstracted empiricism of behaviourism.
But read instead as a critique of politics, ethics and craft, it is much more powerful - as the latter chapters make clear.
Having been written in the 50s, there is much which appears dated; the position on reason and freedom, for example, or the exclusive use of male pronouns.
This book is written as a sort of textbook for aspiring sociology majors, although Mills wouldn't like the term "textbook".
He spends the beginning of the book fairly aggressively attacking current (in the 50s but still I think quite relevant today) trends in sociology and then goes on to explain sociology as he sees it: a neccesarily political and historical profession.Though I wouldn't recommend it to everyone and it's certainly not light reading, it provides an excellent toolkit for starting to understand what is going on in our complex world.
If Mills is not the smartest author I've read recently he is certainly one of the clearest thinkers.
Think of this as a manifesto for the social sciences. Its key points: think critically, always consider ideological implications, and think holistically but pay close attention to the evidence. Mills was a remarkable thinker, and he shows why the social sciences have something to say about the world we live in. And, unlike many of his fellow Marxist writers, he has no patience for jargon or obscurantism. It's a clarion call for action that retains all of its power to this day.
For instance, Mills talks about sociologists who have become technicians in the service of power rather than to humanity; journalists, for-profit/corporate ones at least, tend to create fictions out of reality that conform to the needs of power/societal institutions instead of writing about reality and demanding the kinds of changes needed to give everyone in society the dignity and material support that they need.
Again, objectivity and its questionable usefulness when doing sociology is raised by Mills just as objectivity is raised when journalists try to write to change the world (as in being biased) rather than pretend they have no interest in the topic and are thus objective.
The Sociological Imagination is a usefull book to read for every one that like to underestand Social and Political relations. Specially inequality in human relations explained well. I enjoied of reading this book.
A must read for sociology student.
El proyecto de la ciencia social de verdad pasa por ese tercer papel del investigador social, esa tarea de impulso de la "sensibilidad" en los sujetos; la humanidad, mujeres y hombres, somos el agente del cambio, tenemos una capacidad de manipular la estructura que hemos de potenciar, que hemos de comprender y saber como usarla para hacer frente a esos problemas que nos acechan día tras día.
Si bien es cierto que ese tercer papel del investigador nos puede llevar a una situación democrática, donde atendamos a las necesidades en base a las significaciones de los sujetos, el autor de Sociosofia plantea la interesante opción de la "anarquía epistemológica".
The Sociological Imagination is a very inspiring read for all sociologists or social scientists to be.
Mills makes some great arguments on what social scientists' real purpose and responsibility should be - focusing on the relationship between the individual and social structures when defining research problems, comparing structures to the societies and historical eras they exist in, and taking on a political role by informing the public of serious societal issues.
Eventhough the book is very clearly a product of the time it was written where there was either an excessive focus on theory or statistical methods, Mills' points are still relevant today, and he delivers some interesting methodological advice in the appendix.
A pretty outdated, but decent explanation of what sociology is, how an ideal sociologist ought to go about research and the ideals they should hold.
Whilst this book's general thesis is fantastic, the examples are largely outdated, the book is pretty dry and the book offers very little to somebody who has already studied sociology.
The appendix 'On Intellectual Craftsmanship' is a fantastic outline of how a sociologist or student of any social science ought to conduct themself.
Perhaps I'd recommend this book to someone totally uninitiated in Sociology if I'd no other recommendations, but the appendix however is worth reading for everybody studying a social science or humanities at university, it's inspirational and timeless (unlike the rest of this book).
Un clásico. Fue determinante en mi rumbo inicial como sociólogo, gracias a su inclusión en el programa de la materia por el profesor Rinesi. Recuerdo el prólogo de Germani, en el que ubica a Wright Mills en el contexto norteamericano, dice "está muy bien para EEUU, pero acá en Argentina hace falta burocracia primero".
Probably some good stuff here, but past the first chapter it becomes unbearably dense, and I was unsure of how each of the chapters connected to each other. Will probably appreciate more after it's taught/put into better context vis a vis other works of soc theory
Read in part for CRM3301 (Contemporary critical theories in criminology) and other sociology classes. Any one who fancies themselves a social scientist should read this book. Mills provides the basis for any good social research.
It's an interesting book but hard to understand.
Very smart. But very hard to read for somebody.. like myself.. who is a new student.Will have to come back to this in a few years.
Not that I completely agree with everything in this book, but Mills definitely challenged my ideas on how the social sciences should be approached. Interesting stuff!
i didn't really understand all of it, but i liked most of what i understood
I think its cool when you read a book that is 40+ years old, but it has weird little hints and general information that informs a lot of the weird changes you have experienced in the present.
good stuff
It helps you to think beyond you see
He posits two then-popular modes of thought, which were abstract empiricism and the grand theory.
His arguments against these modes of thought make sense: for example, there can't be a grand theory of sociology because, cliched as it seems, every person is different and unique.
On the other hand, abstract empiricism is equally asinine: excessive focus on the minutiae, in pursuit of the 'scientific method' is equally baneful because the minutiae sometimes preclude the scientist from a significant observation.
There must be creativity and independence of thought in the establishment of sociological theory, and any grand, sweeping notions should be avoided: Mills' sociological imagination is one's reliance on the pursuit of knowledge steeped in sensible, human drives.
We must also consider history--our modern-day social milieux and social problems didn't just come out of nowhere, and it's entirely possible that they developed and/or existed in a different form in another time and another place.Curiously, Mills himself is aware that contemporary society is changing ("We are at the ending of what is called The Modern Age...
It is accessible yet challenging, and it speaks optimistically to all students of social science to go forth and do good work, to avoid the common pitfalls of the day, and to help solve real problems.
“Let every man be his own methodologist, let every man be his own theorist.” “The sociological imagination enables us to grasp history and biography and the relations between the two within society.” “Neither the life of an individual nor the history off a society can be understood without understanding both.”― C.
He has a problem with 1) Grand Theorists and their overally verbose and obtuse generalizations about the nature of the world and 2) “abstract empiricism” that is overally focused on methodology, preparing technocrats to serve bureaucracies such as corporations and the military to help them be, for instance “more efficient” in the work they set out to do rather than people in need.
He coins the term 'abstracted empiricism' to refer to the dominant paradigm within the social sciences which prioritizes method over issue, with its pedantic obsession with evidence.
He further criticizes what he terms 'grand theory' for its obscurantism and conceptual arrogance in attempting to explain the totality of social issues.
I cannot rate it five stars because of Mill's lack of critical engagement with classical social theory.
He makes bold claims about the independent nature of classic social science and the quality of the work such an ethic produced.
