https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156185.On_Being_Blue
We all kept this Blue Book half hidden amongst all the other books although we had the reassuring knowledge that everyone else had a copy as well.When a few years later I arrived for my graduate studies to another University on another continent, for those of us who wanted to tick off from our graduation requirements our knowledge of some foreign languages, we had to then take during the first weeks our tests in translation.
Very much another.Colors and languages; projections and conventions; words and correspondences; utterances and literary repertoire.
Even as he nears the end with a curiously precise and penetrating examination of the mechanics of visual perception, his penis must make an appearance (on page sixty nine no less), revealing it as the locus for the source of all his fine thought, and later as the stylus from which issues his own same fiction.(view spoiler)[Actual rating: five big fat fucking stars!
Blue lipsBlue veinsBlue, the color of the planet from far, far away..   ( verse from the single-  Blue Lips)At the risk of sounding corny to the extent of being doltish; the moment I boarded on Gass’s cerulean expedition, a mystifying songstress, a certain Ms. Regina Spektor was awaiting for my arrival. In the course of her repeatedly looped melodious rendition, what Ms. Spektor was trying to elucidate to my conflicted mind was the enchantment of the colour:- Blue. The symbolic “blue lips” sign
Thus, all I needed was the brilliancy of Gass, the melodies of Ms. Spektor and the grandeur of the word: - Blue; to find some order in the riotous clutter of a schoolgirl’s room.The words sing to the miraculous transformations of the blue pigment, its magnificence illuminating through the monochromatic arrays of feelings, shape, form and art.
A single word a single thought, a single thing,” , just as Plato taught ; condensing the virtue of the blue pigment into a psychosomatic and philosophical idiom, forming an artistic chorus between the domains of “seeing blue” and “being blue”.
So it's true: Being without Being is blue.  First time rated a book before finishing it and that too with 5 stars. Gass is Good.
Remember in Moby Dick where Melville goes on long tangents about the color white and whale anatomy? Gass is doing just that here, except with the color blue and fucking.
But blue will swallow black like a bell swallows silence ‘to echo a grief that is hardly human.’ Because blue contracts, retreats, it is the colour of transcendence, leading us away in pursuit of the infinite.” On second thoughts, I think this book deserves 5 stars.It consists of an amazing few chapters that examines the colour blue in everyday life, literature etc.
I haven't read anything else by him but I do like his writing style a lot; it's obvious he's a fan of the English language, and his use of the language is stunning and frank at the same time.
Under no set of circumstances would I agree to write an introduction for this essay-panegyric to the color blue and, let's admit it, to the thought/act sex ; under no set of circumstances would I want my prose to be set directly next to that of William Gass.
And then takes us out in a two-page-long sentence of encouragement to all writers.Encouragement to be heeded by said writers - just don't let your prose stand directly next to his.
The dust jacket is a brown, textured paperbag with black-appearing-blue lettering and blue graphics, the title and author’s name being boxed with a narrow line inside a heavier line (both blue); an escutcheon (blue) printed between title and author; the spine of the jacket as on the cloth, black-appearing-blue ink replacing the gold; the reverse of the jacket containing an excerpt of the text, the DRG escutcheon (not the squiggle escutcheon on the front), and publisher’s name and address on Dartmouth Street in Boston.
Gass's love of words so sincerely, beautifully and artfully expressed here in his philosophical approach to colour, language and literature. These essays he writes... these layers of thought expressed in the most conscious expanding articulation are profoundly moving and awe inspiring in style and prose. Another Gass essay to elevate my future reading experiences through altered and enhanced perception.
If he claims that reality requires his depiction of the sexual, in addition to having a misguided aesthetic, he is a liar, since we shall surely see how few of his precious passages are devoted to chewing cabbage, hand-washing, sneezing, sitting on the stool, or, if you prefer, filling out forms, washing floors, cheering teams.Furthermore, the sexual, in most works, disrupts the form." Hmm.But then in an obsessive way, Gass keeps returning to matters sexual ( don't get excited by the thought though cause he makes love with* words not bodies!):"It’s not the word made flesh we want in writing, in poetry and fiction, but the flesh made word.” And :“It is not simple, not a matter for amateurs, making sentences sexual; it is not easy to structure the consciousness of the reader with the real thing, to use one wonder to speak of another, until in the place of the voyeur who reads we have fashioned the reader who sings.”In other words, through the alchemy of language, the sexual act transcends both the intent and execution of titilation/ cheap gratification.
How did I get here?All I wanted to do was read The Tunnel. But the ebook is unavailable and I did not want to spend 5000 12,000 bucks on a book that I am pretty sure I won't understand. That's how I ended up picking up this little one by Gass instead. Hadrian's review pretty much sums it up.Absolutely loved it. The author's thoughts are scattered and I'm sure I missed a lot of the references, but I highlighted the shit out of every page. I want to read everything written by him.someone please gift me The Tunnel
Leant a little on the opaque bloviating side of Herr Gass’s repertoire. Otherwise > approved.
It is more about the relationship of the Self with its Object, with an Other, and the extent that this might be sexual.It’s the blue in blue movies, blue stockings, the aspects of life that are described in terms of birds and bees and flowers, that are too often censored or blue-pencilled out of the blue-print for humanity or propriety.In a sense, “On Being Blue” is a rebellion against the tendency of straight-laced white conservatism and convention to expel the blue from their midst.Gass set himself the task of understanding how this occurs from a social, literary and philosophical point of view.This doesn’t mean that Gass wanted to promote the writing of pornography.
Actually, it is not a mere Philosophical Inquiry, it's also with a touch of Linguistic Analysis, a smear of Satirical Extravaganza, and a fine dose of the grandest prose.
It may be partly due to him making use of very scandalous topics such as sexual material in literature and swearing or the good ole' cussing or whatever you want to call it.
But there's a fine distinction between him and the linguistic scholars that write my university text books.
I utterly believe that Mr. Gass is in love with language, while the others merely study it.
There's no equivalent of a man so in-love with language, not even the best of scholars.
Although rarely."Also:"Thus civilization advances by humps and licks."Another marker of success: whereas in other Gass one moves across the page in a series of muttered sighs of assent, here you can't get through a single page without shouts and gales of laughter, short calls of "No he didn't!" and "You dirty dog you!" All this is to say, Mr. Gass has provided us with a supremely enjoyable book, for its sonorous and variable prose rhythm, its insight into the aesthetics of sexual writing, and its dream of color in language.
William H.
Gass understands language and literature like someone who’s immortal, who’s been studying literature since Plato was around, Gass takes words strings them together creates something grand, that is beyond what you think words can be and should do, I fear I’m too dumb to understand what “On Being Blue” means or rather it’s impossible for me to put into words what this book is about.
Blue as, the cover of Infinte Jest, or gym shorts that are colbolt, are snug along her cunt, blue laws, Orgy's cover of Blue Monday, (Beckett was blue and Gass brings up John Barth's The Sot-Weed Factor many times),Royal to Navy, Aqua to Robbins Egg, Well look my examples of blue suck read Gass's examples of Blue instead.
As always, Billie G.
writes next to nothing but five-star sentences, and On Being Blue has plenty of syntactical heartthrobbers ornamentally arranged throughout its slender page count.
This book is at its best when Gass poetically ponders on the usage and intended/unintended meanings of dirty words, and how dirty words need to be more loved by readers and writers so that they can deliver a full-scale of fleshy resonance on the page.
But nonetheless, a Gass is always a gas worth having, and this book certainly is as alluring as the blue lady on the cover.
In the dead of night, in the dead of all colour.So his victim happened to be the blue of this world.
I think he just tried to prove to himself how great of a mind he is and blue just happened to accidentally stumble upon his path.Now, I suspect it might be me being not clever, not literate and not sophisticated enough to understand the genius of Gass.
But one thing I am for sure (and I have been it all my life) – blue - and just having been violated by this man's handsome mind, I feel like blue is definitely not his colour.
Is it about blue?
Is it about philosophy?
Is it about sex?
Is it about all of these things or none of them or something else entirely?
I'm still not sure.
The first sentence was great; the rest, not so.
I know there is a lot to say about the colour blue and now I'm blue that this book said so little.I will console myself with this brilliant BBC documentary: A History of Art in Three Colors, Episode 2: Blue which I would recommend to anyone with even a passing interest in art or history or the colour blue, it's that good.
I can't be the only one who thought of Tobias Funke when I read the first few pages.OK, got that out of the way.Gass has written a dense and allusive little thing that reminds me, if it reminds me of anything, of the finest aesthetic essays of Susan Sontag, Junichiro Tanizaki, Juhani Pallasmaa, and Elaine Scarry.
Only with more fucks.
Way more fucks.
I'd thought that when he was considering all things blue, his focus would be on melancholy, but nope, he went for the fucks.
Not what I was expecting, but entertaining as all hell, even if I felt like covering up the page when I was reading on the subway.
An inquiry into color in general and blue specifically, with regard to how it relates to perception, emotion, sexuality. Very interesting. It also highlights in part strengths of writing, how subtle good writing can be versus the blunt laziness that characterizes poor writing.
I have a theory, which I may have already expounded somewhere or other, but why not try to refine it?In the aesthetic universe, there is an infinite (nearly*) number of valid aesthetic ideals.
This is legitimate, but it falls completely outside the scope of Gass's aesthetic as explored in this philosophical inquiry.What of Beckett?
Gass must be aware of this, yet again I must say it falls outside the scope of his investigation, such that it seems Gass has neglected to comment on something of essence within Beckett's work.I take seriously Gass's challenge and assertion that we must restore a pride-of-place to the aesthetic of language form.
#stayclassy
Gass then processed to the blue and green of indecency and obscenity, and how and why we had lost such innocence of our “sexual material,” despite its relevance to our inner feelings, into literary oblivion:“And the principal difficulty with using sexual material in literature is that the motives of all concerned are usually corrupted.” Unfortunately and knowingly, it is the distance between literature and the subject of sexual depiction, flaking and trailing off into the awkward ether, has plumped at least into the bottom of myth, at its kennel, “the endless lies, the forlorn wishes.” The silence signified our content to bury the weakness/sexual intimacy that we callously treasure deep inside our subterranean.“Because of the values we place on sexuality in life, because of the terrible taboos which surround it, the endless lies, the forlorn wishes, the sad fantasies we wind around it like gauze about a wound (whether these things are due to the way we are brought up, or are the result of something graver – an unalterable quality in our nature), everyone’s likeliest area of psychological weakness is somewhere in the sexual.”“they (the children) immediately grasp the prepositions of belonging and the pronouns of possession.
Like Shakespeare, Gass takes boyish pleasure in filling a page with an effervescent mixture of bawdiness and wordplay, gilding it all with a sophistication of style that completely shields him from any potential accusations of being (gasp!) "lowbrow." He has a profound learnedness, a deep and intimate familiarity with English literature, that is rather reminiscent of James Wood.
Like Wood, Gass strews his prose with rather obscure quotations from literary texts -- the B-sides of literature, so to speak -- in a way that makes his readers hungry to dash to the nearest library and devour those texts that he references so lovingly.

I suspect a lot of the praise this book gets is from people who wish to be seen as Elite Intellectuals.It's boring, pretentious, and at 90 pages, still manages to feel bloated.
I gather this is a constant in Gass's writing, though I haven't dug deeply enough to know for certain, that he takes a certain sense of shameless pride in embracing his own sexual fixations, running down fantasies in both plain and lofty language.The result is an essay that reads like the best metafiction, packed with narrative flights of fancy, but ultimately returning to the real.
But Gass's language crackles right along like blue lightning.
Having been on the hunt for it for some time, tracing its influence as a seemingly pivotal reference point for other explorative reads (either on art, the erotic, or color), I made the mistake of having high expectations for this book-length essay.
Delicious only in parts that transcended the listing of blue things into inspired passages on behavior and connotations of blue and of language itself, the rest of the book fell short.
It was unconvincing and I was mostly unimpressed, thinking perhaps that these sparks were worth saving and holding on to.I do predict, just by virtue of featuring blue and dissection of language, I might be referring back to those passages again.
The strangest thing happened while I was reading this book.
It was chosen by my book club and I had not googled anything about it nor about its author ahead of reading.
And yet as I read it I couldn't help but picture the author a certain very particular way and lo and behold!
he happens to look exactly like what I imagined: a frumpy uncle type whom you wouldn't want to be in any way lewd in your presence.
Also, I can't help but think that all of Gass'es somewhat incoherent struggles with sex writing will have been voided with the discovery of Nicholson Baker.
