https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6468203-through-the-gates-of-the-silver-key
It stains the Randolph Carter cycle in much the same way that Derleth—albeit more cleverly—marred the Cthulhu mythos: it takes a few uncanny suggestions and makes them philosophically and technically explicit, thus robbing them of most of their terror and all of their romance.Price's original manuscript constitutes almost half this tale, and he is responsible for the worst of the tedious stuff: the elaborate theosophical explanations of the working of the gates that lead to the countless planes of existence.
3.5What really happened to Randolph Carter and the Silver key after he disappeared. Even though you get an explanation for that, Lovecraft ends this story with another mystery.
People have told me what a bizarre trip H.P. Lovecraft stories can be and those people knew what they were talking about.
Randolph Carter has passed on and the fight for his estate is on...or has he passed on?The story then takes us through a different dimension through space and time in which Carter travels and meets with other creatures and his own time-traveling self.
I think in order to better understand this section of the story, you must take some kind of hallucinogenic drug because it's indeed a bit on the weird side.The story is very short and quite a trip and the ending is indeed no different.
This wasn't one of the better dream cycle stories, but it does complete the sequence.
Zagrebačka naklada Zagreb, 2012.Preveo Toni GolubRadi se o noveli.Jezik je tipična lofkraftiština, unutar žanrovskih odrednica weird fictiona te s snažnim momentima atmosferičnosti.Lovecraft ne aktualizira jezik već sadržaj, što je slučaj i u ovoj priči.Shvaćanje da vrijeme u suštini ne postoji je temeljna stavka radnje ovog djela.
Dok se humanistika i dalje bavi ljudskim pravima, koja su ipak njezina metafizika jer je to bog koji traži krvave žrtve, pa bile te žrtve i nerođena djeca, svijet se pokazuje daleko dubljim nego što smo mislili.
A, i svi liberali i rasisti su ionako ovce, pa mi moju čovječnost također nikada ne mogu uzeti.A, sad povratak ovoj noveli.Ne želim prepričavati radnju.
Randolph Carter is the main character in the story.
He is Lovecraft's alter ego, so it was cool to envision Lovecraft himself floating around in all the different dimensions that the story depicts.Carter has a silver key that allows him to pass through gates that go to different time periods and also outside of Earth's realm.
Then he passes through another gate that leads to outer dimensions, and things get pretty bizarre from there.
The author's vivid descriptions of these worlds can really stimulate the imagination.
I see how he could have influenced contemporary fantasy authors.
3*. Nice conclusion to the Randolph Carter cycle
Τὸ «Ἀσημένιο κλειδὶ» καὶ τὸ «Πέρα ἀπὸ τὶς πύλες τοῦ ἀσημένιου κλειδιοῦ» (τὸ δεύτερο σὲ συνεργασία μὲ τὸν Ἔ. Χόφμαν Πράις) εἶναι δύο ἀπὸ τὰ ἐξοχότερα καὶ μᾶλλον τὰ σημαντικότερα διηγήματα τοῦ Λάβκραφτ, ὅσον ἀφορᾷ στὶς ὀνειροχῶρες, τὴν φύσι τοῦ χωροχρόνου, τῆς πραγματικότητος καὶ τῆς συνειδήσεως. Συναρπαστικὸ ἐπίσης καὶ τὸ ἀγωνιῶδες «Στοὺς τοίχους τῆς Ἔρυξ», τὸ μόνο ἴσως καθαρὰ ἐπιστημονικῆς φαντασίας διήγημα τοῦ συγγραφέως.
While rather lengthy for Lovecraft, this story is exciting and gripping with just a touch of mystery. Lovecraft fingers upon those misty memories we call dreams with a fascinating premise.
Surprisingly futuristic for a story written in 1920s. Lovecraft is the Boss.
“Through the Gates” also has a more typical story structure than “The Silver Key”, which in some ways is basically a philosophical polemic for the first half before even beginning to have a semblance of a plot in the last half.
But “The Silver Key” has a dreamy atmosphere that I just eat up, and is quite thoughtful whereas “Through the Gates” is more of a neat sequel to what was an original tight story that didn’t need a sequel.
I like this one more for the implications it has for Carter as a character and some of its set up scenes than the story itself.
It's at least interesting, but anyone who expresses the "horror" of feeling at one with more than oneself has almost certainly never experienced it.
Suffers from the usual journalistic style issues, where this could have been made much more effective by picking a single POV and sticking with it (preferably the one telling the story).
Of course, Lovecraft always seems to want to leave room for doubt, but even one of the others in the room would have been better than the forced journalistic neutrality.Somewhat enjoyable, but could have been sooo much better.

O livro continua com os eventos narrados em A Chave de Prata, de Lovecraft. Carl Gustav Jung e o terror cósmico?
An interesting concept is explored in this tale, what if we are all facets of higher beings? It is a rather low paced story, not everyone will like it but it is worth reading in my opinion.
This is technically a Lovecraft work, but is a re-write of a contemporary's enthusiastic attempt at a sequel for 'The Silver Key'.
It is difficult to say if the quantitative, mechanical descriptions are inherent to the original author's attempt at setting an implicit contrast between this environment and dreamland, or simply the results of the writing.
Not to say that the style is inherently less than other works; but only to say that the original author's strengths are in imagery through precision, and not through flow.
This sequel to the famous The Silver Key was written as a collaboration between H.
P. Lovecraft and E.
Hoffmann Price.
Price initially wrote it, and Lovecraft ended up rewriting it, keeping many of Price ideas and concepts.
He explains that the key took Carter to a type of higher dimension.
There, Carter, on an ill-defined mission (or out of sheer curiosity), traveled strange sections of the cosmos by first meeting with 'Umr at-Tawil, a dangerous being warned of in the Necronomicon, saying those who deal with it never return.
4 za skvělý styl a vykreslení, které ukazuje, že kdyby Lovecraft nezemřel tak brzo, dál by se autorsky vyvíjel a mohlo by to být pěkně zajímavé.
Nicméně tenhle text vznikl ve spolupráci s teosofistou/budhistou E.
Hoffmannem Pricem, což je docela zásadní, i když slova budou Lovecraftova.Deleuze považuje tuhle novelu za Lovecraftův vrchol.
Lovecraft hodně používá slovo plane ve smyslu plocha, rovina...
Deleuzemu určitě nevadí, když dílo vznikne za pomocí více hlav.
Nicméně právě to, že to není čistý Lovecraft (ale co je čisté dílo?), trochu ztěžuje hodnocení...Jinak obvykle jsou v jeho dílech postavy, které se setkávají s odlišnými lidmi/rasami.
Tady je to trochu obráceně.
Hace algún tiempo escuche que existía un personaje llamado Lovecraft el cual escribía ciencia ficción y fue adoctrinado como uno de los precursores en las novelas del terror cósmico...
El simple hecho de poder impregnar las descripciones de 'cosas' inexplicables de forma tan abstracta pero consistente es un arma poderosa, utilizada muchas veces al momento de entrar en el subconsciente.
Puede ser un proceso sutil, pero se adentra en los pensamientos.Al haber empezado la historia de Cárter en este libro me deja muchas incógnitas.
Pero me complace saber que aún quedan muchos misterios dentro de la extravagante mente de Lovecraft por explorar.
Un manojo de términos ambiguos y vacíos se encargan de intentar dar forma a este relato de ciencia ficción. Parece que el idioma le quedó limitado al autor (y posiblemente a cualquiera) si tratamos de describir un viaje por dimensiones "fuera de nuestra concepción y entendimiento". Más que todo, es un ejercicio de imaginación.
Me sorprendió el contenido místico de la obra. Mucho más interesante y concluyente que otras obras de las sagas cósmicas de Lovecraft, a las que a veces les falta un poquito de sentido común y les sobran las obsesiones extraterrestres.
Releído por enésima vez. Uno de los relatos que más me atrapan y embelesan. H. P. Lovecraft no es sólo un maestro en lo horror, también tiene una habilidad muy brillante y cósmica en narrar una ciencia-ficción que supera cualquier comprensión humana. <3
Příběhy Randolpha Cartera jsou spíše jakási mystická fantasy než horror. Putování snovým světem ve společnosti pojídače mrtvol Pickmana, přes planinu Leng až ke dvoru Nyarlathotepa - to zní docela dobře, ne?
There were two occurrences of a racial epithet near the end that are jarring, but that was the culture at the time.I liked this story more than most that Lovecraft wrote solo. I know, most readers seem to disagree. Still, the story drew me in more effectively than other Lovecraft.
I think is pretty exhausting and long to be a lovecraft book, but i think it was right, not awesome or something like that, just right
This is the fourth and final story that features Randolph Carter and in some ways it might be the best.
I enjoy the stories about Randolph Carter, and this one did not disappoint. Quite a bit of science fiction in this strange tale, and the premise and setting was excellent. A man ahead of his time.
Another story in the Randolph Carter sequence. I saw the twist coming from a mile away, but it is interesting to hear Lovecraft's take on life, the universe and everything.
Short, kind of weird.
2.5 stars
