https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137917.The_Psychology_of_Intelligence
As an avid reader of child psychology and learning theories, it is in my opinion that this book is an essential part of understanding at least 1/4 of how individuals develop and learn.
It is in this book that one is able to understand that Piaget was the first theorist to realize that intelligence is the level that an individual is able to manage their environment through their own experience of life.
In order to understand any portion of learning, for the child and the adult, this is a must read!
Hope to find more like this ...
A seminal book that should be read in conjunction with Vygotsky's "Mind in Society".
Jean Piaget presages a lot of contemporary thought in cognitive science, et al.
I suppose there was a lot of this book I didn't entirely buy at face value-- at least regarding the logical structures of the human brain-- but there was quite a bit that I did.Basically, the core of Piaget's theory is as follows: that children's thinking is radically different from adults', and that intelligence is an outgrowth of cognitive skill.
As we grow, we become less egocentric and more willing to question our core perceptions of the world around us.
Clearly influential on later thought, but fairly intuitive to many modern readers.
Standard "I read this, but damned if I can remember exactly when or why or enough about it to make detail comments" disclaimer: My rating is based solely on my memory of how much or little I enjoyed the book at that time.
In some cases, "at that time" might mean before most Goodreads users were born.
Then again, it could mean a couple years ago and that I have a lousy memory.
Heck, given how all our tastes change over the years and the fickle nature of memory, my own mileage might vary if I re-read it today.
Without a psychology background this was difficult at first. Piaget writes beautifully, but without the proper context, it seems like gibberish. This book would be appreciated by advanced students in psychology, or by someone reading a more accessible synopsis of Piaget's work in tandem. Piaget's concepts and ideas are spelled out eloquently in this text. This encapsulates his Theories of cognitive development.
Piaget's groundbreaking work on what intelligence is, and the factors behind its development. An essential read for anyone working in the education field, or anyone with kids for that matter. A word of warning though, as with the rest of Piaget's work, it is also very technical. He doesn't shy away from proving his theories using math, so some sections can be difficult if math isn't your strong point. I will definitely be reading this again.
I do not rate it because I can't, I did not finish reading it. It turned to be too complicated for me to understand it in English. Too many unknown words and terms. Unfortunately, my English is not that good to comprehend "The Psychology of Intelligence".
I started reading this Yesterday , and guess What ?! I couldn't leave the book till I finished it . I read a lot of books in psychology and I can say undoubtedly this book was so fine ..
No sé ni porqué terminé de leerlo. Es viejo. Es aburrido. Lo resumo en una oración: La inteligencia es un proceso que se desarrolla desde las primeras respuestas senso-motrices por el camino de la abstracción. No dice mucho más que eso el libro. Gestalt es poca cosa, porque entra ahí. Conductismo es poca cosa porque entra ahí. El tipo debe ser un genio y su trabajo revolucionario, pero a mi me aburrió y no me aportó demasiado, y eso que el tema me parece super interesante. Perdón piagetistas.
An absolute must-read for anyone interested in the workings of the mind. I'm a Psychology major so love reading books on the subject. Piaget is a favorite.
The core of Piaget's theory is good, which helps children to think radically different from adult & their intelligent seems to outgrowth these days :)
It's a great book, very academic though, but illuminating and a thoughtful read. Was tough to read at times but always interesting. Loved the cover also. 4.25
I skimmed this book because I needed information for character development, but must say the book reads like a college textbook.
Un classique pour tous les niveaux des formations.
