https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121330.Wanderer_of_the_Wasteland
I'm gonna save you the trouble of having to read it, and just give away the whole plot right here- Two brothers feuding over their inheritance and a girl get into a bar fight.
One of them gets shot and the other, grief stricken over what's happened and worried he'll get hung for murder, runs away into the desert.
Since he refuses to become a prospector like everyone else in the desert, he just wanders around and almost-dies like a fifty times, and learns a lot about donkeys.
Only, his brother never died!
Zane Grey’s take on Homer’s Odyssey turns up in Wanderer of the Wasteland, the story of a boy named Adam who flees his past and a terrible crime.
Adam seeks refuge in the desert, where life is unrelentingly hard and every day brings a battle against the alkali sands, scorching heat, lonely nights, no-account highway men, and tempting yet treacherous women.
Certainly these pages are dripping with "ejaculate." That word turns out, in fact, to be one of Grey’s favorite dialogue tags, as in “‘Huh!’ ejaculated the man, stupidly,” or “‘Ho!
Entertaining plot but long. In the middle, I thought it had died in Death Valley but it eventually worked found its way over the Sierras. Having visited Death Valley, I was in agreement with Grey's depiction of it. Now I'm anxious to read the sequel, "Stairs of Sand". I no longer think of Zane Grey as just a writer of low-level westerns. He most certainly was not.
Zane Grey has a wonderful way of incorporating the landscape into his stories and in Wanderer of Wasteland the landscape is a key part of the narrative. I really enjoyed this story although he probably breaks every rule for modern writing.
An early twentith century romanic Western set in the desert Southwest. Adam Laret flees to the desert after his girl jilts him for his brother. He tries to remake himself as a loner until he meets a woman who will inspire him.
Grey is a guaranteed good read. Kind of hard to believe that something written almost 100 years ago is still entertaining and true to human nature. This novel was a bit verbose, it is tedious at times.
A good story of the old west
One of the best I’ve read. Hero’s desperate attempt to survive in the dryvarid wilderness.,
JUST CAN'T FINISH IT.
His works still stand the test of time, and the way he tied the characters into the land, and the land into the story still serve as models for writers of many genres.His Wanderer of the Wasteland, the story of a young man who, after killing his brother, flees to the desert to atone, and how he becomes one with the land, is quintessential Grey.
Adam Larey was betrayed by his older brother, Guerd, a gambler and wastrel, so he ran away to a mining town.
It is possible (based on admittedly a very cursory understanding of the author's life) that the author recorded in this novel his ideal self, but never measured up to that ideal.
It contains non-stop descriptions of desert landscape and philosophical musings that could not have been created without some serious time spent in the wilderness pondering life.
Rather, the author's point seemed to be that things worth having cannot come without blood, sweat and tears type effort coupled with significant amounts of time and courage to face one's self.
This is one of the more believable stories I've read in a long time.
I visited the Zane Grey cabin in Payson, Arizona, this year and they had a bunch of the Walter Black editions of his novels.
If you can put up with the ultra manly but wayward men, the ultra feminine women who invariably reform those manly men, and the ultra bad villains who always get their due, no one ever wrote setting better.
Grey loved the American Southwest and it showed in every word he wrote.
Stay tuned.*Of course as soon as I write those words I think, Why shouldn't Ruth yearn for a better life?
The simple story is that youthful Adam Larey flees into the Arizona desert after a violent and apparently fatal confrontation with his brother, and spends years there mastering the elements and attempting to atone for his crime in various ways.
The descriptions of the desert, and the people he encounters there, are fascinating and graphic.
I found particularly compelling Grey's treatment of his female characters, and Larey's relations with them; this may be one of the earliest examples of feminist writing by a male writer--particularly from an author known for his action novels.
He clearly has spent time there.I have seen people visibly recoil at their first experience of a desert.
It drives home the utter insignificance of an individual at the center of a vastness, one who may not have seen a full horizon for the trees or the great Milky Way for the city lights.Much of the attraction comes from accepting this inconsequence and then embracing it.The desert is the true protagonist of the story, the plot a lesser element lacking real depth.
If you are not interested in the desert, give this a pass.
Love Zane Grey when I ten years old and still do.Zane Grey was one of the first grown up authors I read.
Mother's library had nearly all of them.
They were adventure, history, romance, noble heroes, the highest of ideals and the purity of good women.
I still turn to them occasionally.
Wanderer of the Wasteland is the story of a good man, Adam.
His years as a wanderer of the of the western desert.
Adam's struggle to both physical and spiritual maturity is classic.
The lives he touches, the people he loves.
My father had this book when I was growing up.
The characters and basic plot line are interesting, but the main thrust of the book is almost unending descriptions of the beauty, silence and ruggedness of the desert itself, becoming almost existentially philosophical (translation: BORING after two or three of these passages).
Nonetheless, I was smitten by the overall impression, and when I found out that there is a sequel, "Stairs of Sand," I decided to purchase it on ebay (original 1929 edition), this is my next book to read after "Twilight" which I've almost finished.
Though totally outside of my normal reading genres, this classic Western is one of the most gripping novels I've read in a long time. Set in the old west and Mohave Dessert, it's full of all the tragic elements that make for great reading: love, lust, greed, betrayal, deception, revenge, honor and atonement. Zane Grey was a fantastic craftsman of the written language and should go down as one of the great writers of the 20th Century. I'm going to have to read some of his other works, as well as the sequel to Wanderer, written by Grey's son.
For those who are not aware of it, Zane Grey wrote a follow-up to Wanderer of the Wasteland. That one is called Stairs of Sand. I actually read that one first, before I knew about this one. Together, they make an excellent story, in my opinion. Yes, the attitudes and writing style of Zane's time leave quite a lot to be desired, but that is true for most works of past generations. The story itself, the imminence of the environment, and the inner turmoil of a young soul were conveyed quite well for me.
Un libro tan tan malo que solo se lo puede evaluar moralmente. Un tipo mata a su hermano y como forma de expiar su culpa, vaga por el desierto. En la última oración del texto, nos enteramos que el hermano no está muerto."el destino de la mujer quiere que el único lugar seguro, dichoso y deseado en la vida sea el que le brinda los brazos del hombre a quien ama. Un verdadero hombre, fuerte
The visual imagery in this book is amazing. The story is old fashioned the characters interact in old fashioned ways but knowing when it was written it works, just have to keep that in mind. Zane Grey is a wonderful writer and really makes you feel that you are walking in the dessert with his characters.
From the Little Free Library (LFL) - since I wanted to try out Zane Grey. The writing was old-fashioned and the story just did not capture my attention. So after 3 chapters, I am taking it back to LFL.Done with it 11/24/16 - not counting it toward my "books read" for the year.
This book was a hard, slow read at times. The last 200 pages were easy, quick reading. The story is complicated and involves alot of self reflection and insight on the part Iif the main character, Adam.
This isn't long on plot, but I love the way Zane Grey describes the desert landscape.
Another Fabulous BookZane Grey has done it again, in writing this novel. His attention to detail surrounding his characters is beyond belief. Superb.
Great storyGreat book, great author. Makes you want to go live in the desert to here feel and smell what lies out there.
The descriptions of the landscapes are exquisite. The tale is simple, biblical. My complaint is that Zane, though with beautiful prose, was much too wordy with endless description.
Southwest
Wonderful! LOVED IT!
