https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3049757-flower-fairies-of-the-garden
She'd let me look at it, read it and talk about her childhood.
I loved this old-fashioned book and gorgeous illustrated plates more than the sweet fairy poems but re-reading through it now, there are stanzas and lines that vividly come back to my memory since I'd said them so many times as a child.
Periwinkle's bluuuuue?"and I never knew what this flower, or many of the British garden flowers mentioned in the poems, looked like in real life but I always connected it with my periwinkle Crayola crayon.This book is falling apart but it is a keeper for me, and I keep it in my underwear drawer.

My favorite of the series.
An old childhood favourite: not especially for the poems but for the beautiful illustrations.
As always I loved Barker's poetry. It's so full of life and was the prefect read for spiring time.
This lovely volume’s pages are petite, a suitable format for youngsters to read, and appropriate to the diminutive size of the flower fairies themselves.
Originally published in 1944, each page contains a short poem about a particular kind of flower and the fairies that are known to inhabit it.
Each poem is illustrated on the facing page with a charming and detailed watercolor of the flower and its fairies.
Both adults and children who enjoy short illustrated poems about the garden will like this book.
“Flower Fairies” makes suitable bedtime reading for fairy fans of all ages.
This book was first published in 1944 in England as part of a series of books by Cicely Mary Barker.
There is also one black-and-white drawing with it's own poem/prose.The Forget-Me-Not fairy entry has something interesting; the idea of pink for girls and blue for boys goes back at least as far as when this book was written.
I've read elsewhere that, at one time, the colors were the exact opposite, but I don't know when they actually changed.There are also some notes on some of the fairy entries with more information on the flowers on the page.
The Song of the Forget-Me-Not Fairy Where do fairy babies lieTill they're old enough to fly?Here's a likely place, I think,'Mid these flowers, blue and pink,(Pink for girls and blue for boys:Pretty things for babies' toys!)Let us peep now, gently. Why,Fairy baby, here you lie!Kicking there, with no one by,Baby dear, how good you lie!All alone, but O, you're not-You could never be-forgot!O how glad I am I've found you,With Forget-me-nots around you,Blue, the colour of the sky!Fairy baby, Hushaby!
Mesmerising!!! Wonderful artwork and such pretty rhymes:)
My nan read these poems with me each night that I stayed over, and for that they will always be special to me.This specific collection was especially meaningful as all the flowers listed in the book were in my garden at home, so i used to daydream that there were fairies in the garden hiding behing petals, pretending they weren't there!I just wished that Barker would have considered doing a story. The poems were beautiful, but a story conbining the fairies would have been magical!
It's funny how little things like this stay with you. I covered my room in Flower Fairy photos when I was younger, and memorised the poems. I thoroughly believed fairies existed, and (though in a different way) I still do. This book (and the others of the Flower Fairy series) gave me a bunch of memories and a new way of looking at things - it really helped with my imagination and seeing the world and nature as much more magical as a child, which I think is really important!
I read this at the weekend and still enjoyed the poetry and the beautiful illustrations as much as I did when I was a child. Must look out for the rest of the Flower Fairy series to relive more of my childhood days.
A really lovely little book. I found a copy quite by chance at an op-shop. It's a beautiful little read.
Once you read a Flower Fairy book I doubt you will ever look at flowers the same again. Each will have a personality! Cecely's books have sense a sense of peace about them.
My boy loved these books. We read them by season and this was the last one for us. So sad to reach the end of the series.
Wonderful, whimsical world of Cicely Mary Barker.
* MULTIPLE *
Delightful illustrations - "accuracy of botanical detail", charming and beautiful fairies!
