https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/859358.Detectives_in_Togas
I rate this book a 4, Luke rates it a 5.
He grudgingly agreed to give it a 4.5 star rating (even though Goodreads does not support half star ratings)....Luke was riveted to his seat each night we read this book.
Always a sign of a great book, no?We had a couple of books handy when reading this book:City: A Story of Roman Planning and Construction by David MacaulayThe Ancient City: Life in Classical Athens and Rome by Peter ConnollyAnd we were able to see just how accurate this historical fictional account of ancient Rome really is!
Detectives in Togas is a funny and entertaining read with plenty of silly Roman shenanigans that make it great for younger children. I myself found it too silly and childish, but that is precisely what younger me would have loved.
My mom read this to me and my siblings when we were homeschooled. I just had a blast reading it to my fourth graders as we began our study of ancient Rome. They were quickly caught up in the mystery and on the edge of their seats till we reached the end.
This book cleverly weaves details about life in the Roman Empire into a kid-friendly mystery.
There is also a fairly gruesome death at the end which, since it happens to the "bad guy," is, I presume, supposed to be a relief to the reader.
While my kids were not terribly disturbed by it, I can't say I'm a fan of that kind of ending - at least not for kids this young.Overall, it was a fairly painless way to learn about life in the Roman Empire, but the story itself...
This read aloud complemented our ancient Rome history lessons. While many middle grade mysteries can be predictable and watered down this one kept my kids (ages 7 and 10) guessing until the end. It was an exciting story that also offered us quite a bit of insight into ancient Rome and the Roman lifestyle. We actually enjoyed it so much that we plan to read "Mystery of the Roman Ransom" from the same series before we move on from our ancient Rome unit. Any excuse for more time allocated for read alouds.;-)
I haven't read this since I was 11, tops, but it's still a delight. I love how dorky all the boys are. The best part is that I honestly can't remember a lick of the mystery. However, I remember the illustrations vividly. Hella appealling.
Die drei Bücher um die Jungen der Xanthosschule, die hier ihren Auftakt finden, habe ich als Kind, das sehr an römischer Geschichte interessiert war, sehr gerne gelesen und als clever gestrickte Detektivgeschichte mit ungewöhnlichem Setting in Erinnerung behalten.
Allerdings ist das Buch nicht sehr gut gealtert - wobei ich erst heute festgestellt habe, wie alt es tatsächlich ist.
Ersterscheinungsdatum ist 1953 und das merkt man dem Buch heute doch sehr an.
Nicht nur ist der Schreibstil ziemlich hölzern (vor allem bis zum Erbrechen beladen mit Adjektiven), Frauen- und Mädchenfiguren kommen, wenn überhaupt nur am Rande oder als Dekorationsobjekt vor und Relikte wie das N-Wort dürften modernen Leser*innen doch sauer aufstoßen.
My son (6) loved this book and so did I. Pretty funny for me as an adult, which I can appreciate. My son and I did this as a read-aloud. It was somewhat complicated for him to keep up with all of the characters since there were so many, but wasn’t really too necessary to understanding the story. Loved also that it incorporated Roman/Greek elements of history since he is currently studying that in first grade.
Gives some of the flavor of Imperial Rome along with an enjoyable mystery. There are two sequels, but unfortunately, it looks like the third book of this series (Caius in der Klemme) has never been translated from German.
This is more like a 3.5 rating, but I opted for the more generous rating, because I admit I really liked re-reading it.Parts of the book did not age too well, though. I will continue on to re-read the other two books in the series as well.
This is such a hilarious middle grade series. I must re-read it one day.
It is at some unspecified time of the ancient Roman Empire, and Mucius, Rufus, Caius, Antonius, Flavius, Julius, and Publius are all students in the school of Xanthos, whom the boys nicknamed Xantippus because he reminded them of Socrates’s bad-tempered wife Xantippe.
When the boys arrive at school the next morning, they find that someone has broken into the schoolroom, attacked Xantippus, and stolen several articles, including Rufus’s tablet.
They find that someone has written “Caius is a dumbbell” on the temple of Minerva dedicated to the Emperor by Caius’s father Senator Vinicius.
When a temple in ancient Rome is defaced, six students band together to find the culprit and clear the name of their classmate, who is accused of the crime.
I chose this as a candidate for my 3-5th grade book club at the library, but to be honest, it was awful - very dated (it was written in 1956 and it shows), sexist, and just plain boring.
I was complaining at the dinner table last night about the time I wasted reading it, and Daniel told me, "Well Mommy, just think of the time you saved the rest of us!" There's a silver lining everywhere...
I read this book aloud to my children for bedtime, and near the middle of the book, they didn't want to quit reading, and were dying to know what happened next!
For a children's book, I didn't think the 'mystery' part of the book would be that deep, but surprisingly enough, I was still left trying to figure out what was going on up until the last 1/4 of the book!
I loved the way they fit the history in with the story, a great way to let my kiddos step back in time and pretend to be hanging out with children from Ancient Rome!
While a product of its time, it presents to readers a vivid portraiture of Roman daily life that I hope middle-school students will enjoy.Winterfeld’s depiction of Roman life, I must add, is limited to the lives of comfortable upper-class aristocrats.
Caroline Lawrence has demonstrated clearly that even when historical children’s novels are set in the ancient world, audacious female characters (and African, Jewish, and lower-class Romans, for that matter) can occupy central roles.
Despite the upper-class focus of the latter, Winterfeld’s schoolboys do explore a Roman insula, and in this way share with readers useful information about the lives of Rome’s poorer citizens.
We have read this before. It is a funny mystery about a group of roman boys who set out to absolve one of their classmates from a crime he didn't commit. The boys are very cute and funny and it's a joy to read.
Jacob's choice for chapter book read-a-loud 5/24/15.The kids loved the suspense in the book and trying to find out who had done it. Great book for teaching kids to look for clues to figure out a mystery. 6/14/15
This book is fast-paced and exciting, and has a lot of plot twists. It gives you a look at what ancient Roman life was like. In the book, a group of schoolboys find themselves roped into trouble involving an evil Roman general!
My childhood classic
This book keeps you on your toes wondering what is going to happen to Rufus.
Pre-reading for my 5th grader. Enjoyable mystery, interesting story, with details of Roman life.
I finally found this book! I remember reading it in 6th grade for our Roman unit. :P I loved the mystery aspect of it!
It was an easy read, but enjoyable. Mom says she remembers reading it to us kids when we were little.
1. I read Detectives in Togas, because I somehow remembered my 5th grade English teacher's recommendation.
I liked this novel and I was not surprised to know why my former English teacher loved this novel so much.
I have never heard of the author Henry Winterfeld before this novel, so I had to spend the first couple chapters getting used to his writing.
I would definitely recommend this great novel to any who is up for spending a couple days just sitting down and reading.
I wish Henry Winterfeld's writings become more and more appreciated by readers.
My three youngest, especially the boys, enjoyed this rollicking detective tale set in ancient Rome.
With the help of their dour teacher, a group of patrician schoolboys set about to clear one of their fellows of the crime of desecrating a temple dedicated to the Emperor.
The story sucked them right in, the misdirections and mysteries are as puzzling as in adult detective fiction, and the dangers are just exciting enough to quicken the young pulse.
My boys made efforts to figure out the mystery, and urged me to read on.
The writing style is okay, the characters are a bit shallow, and the plot is a little silly.
The mystery is no one that you could ever solve before the author reveals the solution as the story instead of providing clues.
I did like the bits of history provided throughout, with the exception to some phraseology used...like "Call the Police!", "dumbbell" and a few other things I am certain the Romans DID NOT say.
I had to explain to my children that there were no "police" in Rome, but guards and soldiers, not to mention they probably had more interesting words to use as insults.
One of my all-time favorites that I read for school a long, long time ago and one of the best YA historical fiction novels, in my opinion. The story is fast-paced and intriguing, the characters are unique and rounded, and the setting is well-researched with excellent bits of information about Ancient Rome that inform but do not bore. I also love that the main premise--the writing of "Caius is a dumbbell" on a temple--is based on an real-life excavation that revealed the same message (in Latin) on a real temple. An excellent YA read that also holds up for adults.
We would give this five stars. Very fun book to read out loud with your family members over 8 years old. The setting was ancient Rome. The main characters attend a school. Unlike today, there were only six students in the entire school. It was fun to get a glimpse of what it would have been like to live then. When one of the students was accused of defacing the temple of Minerva and put in prison, the other students had to figure out who really did it. Lots of interesting twists and it kept our attention until the end.
This was a delightful book to read-aloud to my first grader. It had the air of a mystery and is written for young readers to be able to follow along easily. It is a great book to introduce the genre of mystery to young readers. I really liked this book. I was surprised that it did include the death of a character, however.
grs 5-8This funny romp through ancient Rome would be a good read for 6th grade students studying Ancient Rome. It is a school story with a twist: one of the classmates gets arrested for defacing the Temple of Minerva, and the others set out to solve the mystery.Although it can be read by high reading younger students, there are a couple of incidents that might be disturbing for them.
