https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3759.Goldfinger
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond peels the snakeskin from the card-cheat to find a dragon in disguise, while lesbians make things difficult.
Reading, Good Reading!  GOOD AS GOLD  Once is happenstance, twice is coincidence, the third time it’s enemy action. This quote from the novel is quite relevant, since Goldfinger, the book, is separated in three parts precisely named after the terms: “Happenstance”, “Coincidence” and “Enemy Action”, describing the interaction between James Bond and Auric Goldfinger, respectively protagonist and antagonist in the story. Also, defining how the story in general is evolving in its own development.Go
Also, defining how the story in general is evolving in its own development.Goldfinger is the seventh (007) novel in the series of James Bond original books, and you won’t be mistaken how relevant this story is, in the middle of the legacy of the most famous secret agent in literatura (and movies).I have watched A LOT of times the film of the same name, and finally I was able to read the original novel.
(view spoiler)[Pussy Galore admits to Bond that the reason she's been a lesbian for over a decade is because she's from the South and her uncle raped her when she was 12 and it put her off men.
*rolls eyes* I never laugh about rape and am unable to find any humor in this misconception of Fleming's.Okay, let's get off the topic of “James Bond books are very offensive” and instead get to the fun!…VILLAINAuric Goldfinger is a rather underdeveloped character.
I was disappointed.In summary on women, this is why I like the books where James Bond is with only one woman (which is the norm).
*swoon* If you don't like the song, don't ever tell me.
There's a passel of cool cars, including the iconic Aston Martin DB5 *swoon* and a 1964 Thunderbird and a 1964-1/2 Mustang convertible *gasp* and...I'd better stop, things could get messy.The real over-the-top-putter moment is the fight sequence in Fort Knox, with all that lovely (fake) gold.
Odd Job, the villain with the lethal hat, comes to a shocking (heh) end, after a balletic slugfest.
And of course the nuclear bomb inside the truckbed tool case is disarmed at...007 seconds to go!I feel sure there was a plot in there somewhere, but frankly if you're watching Bond films for plot you're a sad creature.
A good ole fashioned penis measuring contest between Bond and his villain de jeur, Aurich Goldfinger.Ever the conjurer of DC comics quality bad guys, Ian Fleming has here crafted a gem with Goldfinger – a Ted Nugent capitalist’s capitalist who lives to win at everything.
And we get a double helping of MALEVOLENT as his odd job man – Oddjob – is a Nietzschean superman Asian Mike Tyson action hero figure of badassery.Good sports writing is an under appreciated field of endeavor in literature and Fleming demonstrates his ability with the long chapter devoted to the round of golf between Bond and Goldfinger.
Clearly a golfer, Fleming fills this memorable scene with enough game jargon to impress any low handicapper.
"Fear, Mr Bond, takes gold out of circulation and hoards it against the evil day."- Ian Fleming, GoldfingerA very enjoyable read except for a couple nagging complaints.
I hate Fleming/Bond's attitude towards asians (Koreans in this book, but it was Chinese in Dr. No) and women (lesbians in this book).
I loved the way the novel was structured into the three run-ins with Goldfinger (I.
I think the best summary of this book came from Roy Perrott, writing for the Manchester Guardian, who said the novel was "hard to put down; but some of us wish we had the good taste just to try."
You do what you can to ignore the (casual?) racism and misogyny in exchange for the glamour, and well, the best of James.This one begins with Bond on vaca meeting a man who is being cheated at Canasta by Goldfinger; Bond exposes him, but then hangs out with him, having The Best Dinner of His Life at the Best Restaurant in the World.
Sure, but Bond has sex with both Tilly and Pussy, “changing their minds.” Fleming feels that lesbians are a product of women’s suffrage, which creates confusion about sexual identity:  “Bond came to the conclusion that Tilly Masterton was one of those girls whose hormones had got mixed up.
Don't get me wrong, there are some great characters in this - namely Auric Goldfinger and Tilly Masterton, and of course Pussy Galore, but the plot of this book was rather boring, especially when it became clear towards the end that the book heavily deviated from the film.(view spoiler)[In the book, they never get to conquer Fort Knox.
(hide spoiler)]So, what about the characters?In typical fashion, Fleming vilifies the baddies (Goldfinger and his assistant Oddjob) by endowing them with the appropriate physical descriptions.Goldfinger is another caricature villain:"Perhaps, Bond thought, it was to conceal his ugliness that Goldfinger made such a fetish of sunburn.
After the scene, though, I wanted to chuck my clubs through an open window and burn my golf shirts in a bonfire.
But the way she falls for James Bond made me want to hurl up a Happy Meal.
She may have been a lesbian, but she’d never met a man like James Bond.
I haven’t either, but that doesn’t mean I want to marry the bastard.Even Auric Goldfinger felt limp-dicked compared to his grand cinematic self.
More than anything, though, I wanted to hear one of the most famous exchanges of all time, and I ended up with zip.
2.5 stars ***2018 Summer of Spies*** I spent part of the Labour Day weekend finishing up my Summer of Spies and finishing up Goldfinger. I’ve had fun with earlier installments of Bond, but found this book a bit of a grind. It started, Goddess aid me, with card games yet again and then continued on with one of the only subjects that I consider more boring than cards, golf! There was much eye rolling and boredom on my part, but I realize that these subjects excite other people, and certainly were
I spent part of the Labour Day weekend finishing up my Summer of Spies and finishing up Goldfinger.
Next time I’m feeling down about the role of women and minorities in our society and feeling like change is taking for-bloody-ever, I’ll pick up the next Bond book for a reminder of exactly how far we have come.I will reiterate what I said in my review of Casino Royale, that I am surprised and pleased at the caliber of Fleming’s writing.
I shouldn’t be so surprised, I guess, as he read a lot and spent a fair amount of time with literary people, including one of my favourites, Raymond Chandler.
We watched Goldfinger last night on DVD - I'd seen it once before, around 1975, but I could hardly remember a thing about it.
Felix Leiter, Bond's opposite number from the CIA, turns up in Miami, where Bond is lounging by a swimming pool, having his shoulders massaged by an opulent blonde.
They have the following exchange (from memory):Leiter: Ah, Bond, I thought I'd find you in good hands!Bond: Felix, this is Dink.
Wow. We were trying to remember if this really could have happened in 1964, but we were too young at the time.The actingWe were pleasantly reminded of the Elvis movie Fun in Acapulco, a family favourite.
As far as Bond goes, it also explains some of his cold nature, as they say, “Indifference is a point beyond rage.” I may be a bit crazy, but I think it’s kind of cool that, through what ever exposure to men in danger or who have had to kill people (likely the second world war), Fleming or some part of him noticed how traumatic brutality effected a human being, and that little ibt of it leaked out into his book during a time when most people tended to deny combat and trauma related mental health problems unless you were a victim.
The third time it's enemy action.' Miami, Sandwich and now Geneva." - Auric GoldfingerThe book is broken up into these three sections detailing Bond's three interactions with Auric Goldfinger, a nasty sort of fellow who cheats at canasta and smuggles gold.
Slacker.In the second section, "Coincidence", Bond and Goldfinger play golf.
And then in the final section, "Enemy Action" and things get a bit more exciting and stuff goes boom (more so in the movie than the book).Everyone knows Goldfinger for two reasons, whether or not they've read the book or seen the movie: Oddjob and Pussy Galore.Let's start with Oddjob.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Goldfinger was the first James Bond movie I ever saw so I have a special place in my heart for it.
I'm pretty acclimated to the era when I grew up and still it was a bit stunning.The book begins as does the movie with Bond waiting for a flight at the Miami airport, there he encounters a man who met him in Monte Carlo who needs his help discovering how a man is cheating at Canasta.
Goldfinger's plan in the book is terribly more convoluted and ridiculous than in the movie and takes place in a warehouse in New York rather than a Kentucky horse farm.
See, it wasn't the I didn't expect the sexism and the racism...ok I probably didn't expect the homophobia...but I didn't expect it to be so blatant!
I expected useless women who's only function to the plot was to fall into Bond's arms or die, to be honest I'm used to it.
I didn't expect a character to die because she was lesbian.
Admitedly, once a lesbian showed up I expected that Bond would cure her of this affliction with the power of his ALMIGHTY PENIS but, still, I can be annoyed that I was right and it did.
This novel has it's almost silly moments but mostly it's far more "adult" in it's themes.
While there isn't any real overt sex in the bond books despite their rep, the theme in this one ups the stakes a bit.
(view spoiler)[Pussy asks Bond if he knows what a virgin is.
The answer she informs Bond is that it's a girl who can out run her brothers.
Pussy is the first lesbian in a Bond novel.
(hide spoiler)] If you saw the movie (and I'd guess most have) you have only a vague idea about the plot or characters in this novel.
In the film, Bond gets out of the mess by bluffing, making Goldfinger believe that he knows all about Operation Grand Slam, Goldfinger's plan to blow up Fort Knox.
Bond novels are an escape from reality -- an adult comic book -- but this plot development makes absolutely no sense.In the novel, Goldfinger's plan is to rob Fort Knox of its gold supply.
Maibaum's plan, while still fantastic, makes more sense -- detonating a nuclear weapon in Fort Knox to irradiate the U.S. gold supply and drive the value of his own supply up ten times over.The film has a lot of Asian villains.
Despite having seen many of the films, this was my first exposure to one of Ian Fleming's Bond novels.
The plot, basically, involves Bond having to stop the dastardly Auric Goldfinger from stealing all of the bullion in Fort Knox and using the money to finance anti-American spy interests.
[return]The book is an amazing document of its time - in addition to the Red Menace of Communist influence over Western politics, there are also discussions of the inherent genetic cruelty of Korean people, and how lesbianism is an unfortunate but predictable outcome of allowing women to vote.
Fleming's Bond is an interest character, because he shows absolutely no hesitation when required to kill, but at the same time, he feels guilty about it afterwards.
It's been 50 years since I first read this novel. I recently stumbled upon a leather-bound set of all the James Bond books, and am slowly working my way through them again. Re-reading Ian Fleming reminded me of his consummate skill as a wordsmith and storyteller. Sure, some specifics are off (you cannot see the Gulf from the Miami Airport) but in general, Fleming's writing crackles with details and color. Read these books for entertainment. And read them to remember a simpler time, when Don Draper and James Bond were truly exotic spirits.
This is my second James Bond book and I liked this one as well. The James Bond in these books though, don't feel like the same James Bond on the silver screen. But that is okay with me....I still really enjoy these books. There was even a scene where James is playing golf with Goldfinger and as much as I dislike golf, I was riveted to that scene. Reading this makes me want to look up the movie.These are fun. I want to add more to my reading list.
What bothered me about this book is just how ridiculous it is.It's said the film adapatation of Goldfinger was the movie that sent the series down the outre, larger than life path it made its own for so many years.
It is a close version of the book, so we do have Auric Goldfinger to thank for thirty years of over the top "Meester Bond!" villians.
I try not to go to far down the comparison route, but reading this made me realise how smart the film actually is.Fleming's vintage and his old school tie show up in the book's views of tea, women and - most notoriously - Koreans.
seventeen billion?) of Bond and the antagonist playing golf.
In excruciating detail, we are forced to watch the two traverse all eighteen holes, in which Bond must win in order to establish himself as the kind of person the antagonist wants on his team -- and thus develop his cover identity.
But, of course, the antagonist cheats, often quite obviously, and Bond must develop careful subterfuge to make it appear as if he wins anyway.It's not nearly as exciting as I'm making it sound.
What did I learn from this book?
James Bond is a sexist alcoholic?
Yes. James Bond is prone to flights of romantic fancy?
Yes. James Bond has really weird thoughts about heaven when he's coming around after being drugged?
Yes. The book gave me tons of insight into Bond as a character, but that character I ended up not liking much.
I'm impressed by his ability to drink Bourbon at noon and still save the lives of 60,000 Kentuckians by taping a secret message to the underside of an airplane toilet.
Not to mention, "curing" Pussy Galore of her lesbianism just by being the handsome, macho jerk he his.
2.5 starsAfter having read, and enjoyed, Casino Royale I was looking forward to Goldfinger. I am very disappointed that it didn't live up to the promise of CR. I now know way too many things about golf. I found Gf for the most part boring and the ending didn't help me respect either the writer or the character any more. In fact it left a distinctly poor taste in my mouth. It was, to my mind, worse than the typical Bond mentality. Another blah read for me. I will try Fleming/Bond again though. Better luck next time.
Back in the mid sixties I went to see "Goldfinger" and was so taken with the Fleming/Bond thing that I went out and read every single book then available. This one was a bit different as I recall. The lesbian thing was more up front for one thing(than in the movie)and that gave it a different flavor. As I recall Fleming wasn't all that enthralled with Sean Connery's "interpretation" of Bond. Too crude. Not enough of an English gentleman/spy assassin. Date read is a guess.
I’ve only read three Ian Fleming’s James Bond books prior to this one, but damn, was this a thrill ride! An incredibly racist, mysogynistic thrill ride, but a thrill ride nonetheless! (1959 wasn’t a terribly enlightened time).
Auric Goldfinger, Pussy Galore and James Bond. They're all here for another romp as Bond tries to derail SMERSH again.
Having completed an assignment in Mexico, James Bond, Secret Service agent 007 (licensed to kill), is having a drink at the airport in Miami while he waits for his connecting flight when he's approached by a man he met during the infamous poker game in  Casino Royale , Mr Du Pont. It's soon apparent that this older, overweight, wealthy American has an ulterior motive in striking up a conversation with Bond: he wants to hire James to check out a man Mr Du Pont has been daily playing canasta with
Not so: a connection is made between large quantities of gold leaving Britain - and making the pound lose its value - and Goldfinger, and Bond is back on the case - and discovering just how much of an evil genius and gold fanatic Goldfinger really is, and the lengths he'll go to to possess gold.I'm pretty sure this is the Bond book I read at uni for one of my favourite courses, on popular fiction, but I've never been able to remember if it was Goldfinger or The Man With the Golden Gun. The book is quite different to the movie, and it felt like the first time I'd read it, but certain scenes made me sure this is the one.
Honestly I just can’t.When I last read Bond it was in Casino Royale where he spent equal amounts of time playing a card game and getting his nuts kicked in.
But I’m not going to beat this book down because the digressions bore me (honestly though; reading about golf).
Ian Flemming cannot have known my personal proclivities at the time of writing and if he’s fascinated by written descriptions of two men playing 18 holes or dealing cards or shifting gears in a car he’s the author and it’s his right.
