https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/951644.The_Red_Keep
But it is interesting–he points out things the reader would not notice that the characters in the story live with, such as the lack of privacy in the surroundings of a castle.
I think some of the ingenious siutations that come about must be the fruit of historical research–that he’s often retelling stories and bits and situations he’s taken and adopted for his own (he takes from Invanhoe, and maybe he was a latter day Walter Scot).Allen French is good with character.
One wants these things in stories: a rightness in the conclusion that is more than a clever ending.
This holds a special place in my heart primarily because it inspired my first poem. Being eleven or so at the time, it largely mimicked the plot I had just read, but that's beside the point: this book is good enough to get a writer started.
On occasion The Red Keep was very exciting, but much of the time it dragged and just didn’t keep my attention. I found my mind wandering often and had to remind myself to focus. I don’t really recommend this book, but I wouldn’t say not to read it either.
This is SUCH an amazing book!!! Definitely worth reading over and over...but a little time between each read :) His other books are worth reading!
Great book!
Another excellent read by this author and I quite enjoyed it.
Though I dare say, he likes to make his endings a little differently...not quite sure how I felt about it.
It all ended happily ever after, but it was strange.
;) Good, but strange.
Compared to "The Lost Baron" that I read by this author recently, this one was more violent in description as there was more war and more action.
Makes sense, but there were a few little "uncomfortable" episodes.
The storyline was quite good, very exciting, and heartwarming.
I think most would enjoy this book.

I think our library is one of the very few who own this in the state because there are more requests for this book through the state-wide delivery than any other book, at least for our library. So, well, you know.... you have to wonder why? So, I will find out... I enjoyed the story. We have come a long way on battles compared to the face to face combat demonstrated here. I will be thinking about which student(s) I can pass this on to...
A tale of chivalry and knighthood in medieval Burgundy. It’s a nice example of its type, but includes some self-aware moments that aren’t necessarily typical. Also, the heroine is not a damsel in distress, but she still feels of her time, so yay! [Jan 2011]
I enjoy learning more about the past through Allen French's books. He shows you history through his tales. My only warning is that there are many descriptive passages of the violence of the fighting, if you are one sensitive to that sort of thing.
These "living history" books were the kind I first read aloud to my boys, then had them read them to me, then I would find the books squirreled away in corners of their rooms as they read them on their own - whenever they could find a moment. This was one of their favorites.
Good adventure story, enjoyable picture of life in Burgundy in the Middle Ages. Barons, outlaws, life in a class society--quite interesting. I enjoyed this one a lot.
exciting!!
This is a solid medieval novel. The characters are likable and the story is engaging. The author did his research and it seemed historically realistic.
This is a great medieval fiction story. Definitely one of my favorites and one that has influenced my own writing. Highly recommended.
A story which immerses you in Medieval France around the 1300's.
PG-13
One to add to your solid historical adventure shelf. An engaging read. Likable characters. It's in the style of those excellent children's books that don't speak down to children.
I loved this book as a teenager!!! A delightful story during the middle ages! =)
