https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35535454-the-child
3.5 STARS I was in the minority last year when Fiona Barton’s The Widow was published; I didn’t dislike it, but I felt it was another case of the media hyping up a book to unrealistic expectations and touting a killer twist that wasn’t there.
I’m really glad I did that because it seems to be just what I needed to ensure I enjoyed this read more than the last.While it isn’t officially part of a series, this book does feature reporter Kate Waters who we last saw in The Widow.
Alice's mother, Angela wants to believe it's Alice; Emma who was a teenage resident in Howard Street in the 80's is concerned a long buried secret could be about to be exposed and Kate Waters, a newspaper journalist hung up on the humanity side of the discovery of the bones, is determined to get to the truth of who the baby is by befriending both Angela and later Emma.
There's also some great quotes too in the narrative.This is the second book by Fiona Barton, the first one being "The Widow" and although newspaper reporter Kate Waters is in both stories, they are both individual standalones that can be enjoyed separately or together.
As she begins to look into it a crime that happened decades ago is brought back to attention but things are more complicated than they appear at first.
I felt like the plot for the widow felt obvious and I wasn't surprised by it.
I also really enjoyed the way everything came together at the end and looking back I feel like I should have known what was going to happen.
Even if I did though the way the plot unfolded and the pacing was so good that I think I would have enjoyed it none the less.
A traveling sister read with my Canadian sisters Norma and Brenda.This is one of my favorite styles of books.
Multiple stories running parallel to one another until at some point they converge in an amazing, unpredictable way.
This one absolutely lives up to that!
It’s told from the POV of three separate women.
That's the beauty of this book!
Thank you sisters!If you like books that resemble a mixed bag of puzzle pieces (And who doesn’t!) then this is a great read for you!For our full traveling sister review please visit Norma and Brenda's fantastic book blog: http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
This is a fast paced mystery told from the perspective of four different women.
Kate is a reporter who zeros in on the story of a baby’s skeleton found at the site of old housing units being demolished.
At the beginning, I had to question Kate being allowed to follow an unproven story line and devote so much time to it in a time of layoffs, but that’s a minor quibble.
What makes the novel work well is how the different stories all come together.
The relationship between Emma and Jude was the real clincher to keeping my interest.
The Child' by Fiona Barton is a 2017 Berkley publication.
Many of us who read “The Widow” have been eagerly anticipating Fiona Barton’s next book.This novel centers on a missing child, in a way, but is more character driven, in my opinion.The atmosphere here is suspenseful, loaded with heavy emotions, and addictively readable.
The short chapters, which normally, is a huge pet peeve of mine, worked in this case, keeping the pacing brisk and the alternate perspectives fresh.This review is the copyrighted property of Night Owl Reviews.
To read the full review, click on this link: https://www.nightowlreviews.com/v5/Re...*review copy provided by Netgalley
These characters didn’t saunter around, exuding their very essence across the page like in the previous novel.Though, to be fair, it’s not all cons in this one.
There were moments where I actually imagined them fawning and fanning themselves at the thought of these men, swooning in their own misery, and that made the read feel long, like I was trudging through used Kleenex the entire time.Let’s go ahead and address this here, shall we?There’s so much chatter in the book world about (female) characters who are unlikeable for being shallow or crass—The Girl on the Train immediately comes to mind—but these characters in The Child were equally unlikeable for a completely different reason: because they were so spineless, weak and lacking of any motivation that I could get behind for the vast majority of the novel.
3.5 I had recently taken a break from thrillers, they had all started to blend together.
Kate, a journalist, trying to hold on in the new world of internet news, finds something about this discovery that makes her want to find the truth behind the discovery.
Her search will end up involving three other women, each with a shocking story to tell.I really took to the character of Kate, her doggedness, and insights.
This format tends to work with thrillers quite well.
Although I was ahead of Kate in her discoveries, kind of knew where this was going, it was still Interesting enough for me to keep going.
The author Fiona Barton delivers again!Kate Waters is a journalist and the main character in this novel.
She was also a character on the author's previous novel The Widow but you do not need to read it to be able to enjoy this book because the cases are completely unrelated.Ok, back to the story.
Kate develops an interest in the story and her uncanny work and observations reveal the mystery around this baby.The story is told from several points of view and the characters are interesting and well-drawn.
Overall I enjoyed the story and look forward to reading the author's next novel.
THE CHILD is an intriguing mystery surrounding the discovery of a decades old baby skeleton at a construction site.
The story is told in alternating perspectives of four women, the investigative reporter (who we first met in THE WIDOW) and three others whose lives will be upended by the discovery.Journalist Kate Waters is looking for her next big story when the baby’s remains are found.
Kate’s investigation leads her to the unsolved disappearance of a baby from a maternity ward in 1970.
Kate wants answers not only for her story, but also for the grieving family who’s been in limbo for over 40 years.
Many twists and turns with a surprise ending.“As an old house is demolished in a gentrifying section of London, a workman discovers a tiny skeleton, buried for years.
“This novel is told from four women's perspectives Emma, Angela, Kate, and Jude, past and present.
Jude along with Will threw Emma out of their house when she was just 16 years old.
Emma has tried to share her secret, but Jude would not listen.But all these women take notice of the newspaper article of the building site baby.Each short chapter is devoted to one of the above characters, to allow the reader to get to know all four characters in greater depth.
Traveling Sisters Review by Norma with Brenda and KaceeyNorma’s thoughts:  After reading The Widow by Fiona Barton I knew that I had to read this one right away.
At times having Kaceey and Brenda suspicious of everyone and Norma trying to keep us under control with our theories.FIONA BARTON delivers a well-written and fast-paced story here that is told in four different women’s perspectives Kate, Angela, Emma and Jude that had us all engaged in figuring out their scars, wounds, and secrets leaving Norma on the right track right away.
Intriguing, disturbing, and gritty!This is a character-driven psychological thriller that reminds us that secrets from the past often find their way to the surface no matter how well they are hidden or buried.It is, ultimately, a story about abuse, neglect, manipulation, sexual deviance, deception, heartbreak, lies and familial dynamics.The writing is suspenseful and twisty.
The characters are multi-layered, flawed and vulnerable.
Kate Waters is a newspaper journalist and reads about this riveting story.
As Kate investigates the story, she seeks information about former residents from the area.
Kate crosses paths with Angela whose baby was stolen from the local hospital almost forty years ago.
Angela is now a grandmother and lives with regrets about the fate of her baby named Alice.
She also meets Emma who lived in the building as a teenager.
Kate continues to dig deep into the mystery surrounding the skeleton and how it might relate to any of these women.
Emma, Angela, Jude and Kate.
Why and how did it come to be buried?Angela's newborn daughter was stolen from her hospital room 28 years ago and never found.
Jude threw Emma out of their house when she was just 16 years old.
Emma has tried to share her secret, but Jude would not listen.Kate becomes involved with all of them not only because of a story, but because she genuinely cares.
The book bounces back and forth in their memories from the things happening today to what happened many years ago.All of the characters are cleverly written.
I liked this a lot better than The Widow, but I did guess the ending quite early on, so an aspect of suspense was missing a little. Still, an engaging story and I would certainly read this author in the future!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
4.5/5 stars!!!! Find my full review here: http://crimebythebook.com/blog/2017/4...I enjoyed this one even more than Fiona's debut, THE WIDOW. It has a fantastic cast of characters, and a killer plot twist that I never saw coming!! It's definitely a bit of a slower read at the beginning, but your patience will absolutely be rewarded. Loved this one!!
Out on June 27th An enjoyable mystery from various perspectives. Emma, Angela, Kate, and Jude. And the body of a child found during an demolition. Who is this child and how is he related to the various narrators. The plot is fast and truly a page turner. It wasn't a whodonit as much as a whydonit. I think this book will follow the commercial success of The Widow.
I had read The Widow by Fiona Barton and was really looking forward to reading her new book The Child and I was not disappointed. I really, enjoyed this book, it had quite a few twists and turns. I thought that the story was well thought out and kept me engrossed. It was a real page turner. I would like to thank NetGalley for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
This novel is told from four women's perspectives Emma, Angela, Kate, and Jude and makes for a fast paced story with lots of twists.
Kate discovers a connection to a crime that occurred many years ago when a newborn baby was stolen from the maternity ward in a local hospital and was never found.
The second woman Angela had her newborn daughter stolen from her hospital room 28 years ago and was never found.
The fourth woman Jude, her mother threw Emma out of their house when she was just 16 years old choosing her boyfriend as her priority rather than her daughter.I found all the characters well written, extremely interesting and overall made the novel a very good read.
For fans of Fiona Barton's debut thriller The Widow, you will be happy to see that journalist Kate Waters is back and has found her next big story: The skeleton of a baby has been discovered at a construction site.
I did start to put the pieces of the puzzle together before the big reveal, but it didn't take away from my enjoyment at all.My guess is that Kate Waters is here to stay, so I look forward to seeing what story Kate will find herself entrenched in next!ARC provided by NetGalley
...4+ Stars....Really enjoyed my first Fiona Barton novel.....and Oh Boy!.....It's a series!...THE CHILD is told from four different perspectives with short chapters that flow smoothly making for a very quick and engrossing read.....and don't worry about keeping track of the players as you will soon find it unnecessary....Kate Waters is a journalist who knows her stuff...and has a conscience.
On the lookout for a newsworthy story for The Daily Post, a disturbing find of a tiny skeleton grabs Kate's attention and leads her on an investigative journey exposing multiple buried secrets.....with one biggie I did not see coming....THE CHILD is one fine mystery with some nasty and sleazy character types and much more to the storyline than meets the eye.
“The problem is that a secret takes on a life of its own over time. I used to believe if I didn’t think about what happened, it would shrivel and die. But it didn’t. It sits in the middle of a growing tangle of lies and fabrications, like a fat fly trapped in a spider’s web.”   Oh, this quote is what makes The Child such an engaging story. Four POV's present multiple secrets and plenty of avenues for this mystery to go...and where it went? Didn't even cross my mind! Remember Kate Waters, the c
Oh, this quote is what makes The Child such an engaging story.
Remember Kate Waters, the crime reporter from Fiona Barton's The Widow?
Generally, I don't care for detective fiction, but Ms. Barton's characters and storylines work for me.
Maybe because she was Kate Waters once upon a time, doing her very own exploring into the lives of others to find hidden truths.
Keep doing your thing Ms. Barton, it's working!!My favorite quote:“I’ve always thought that’s a funny saying.
Because sleeping dogs always wake up eventually, don’t they?”Thank you to the following for permitting me access to an advance reader's copy (ARC) of The Child.
An unsolved mystery resurfaced when a baby's skeleton was found at a building site.Along with the skeleton, three main characters emerge too.
The mystery became intriguing.The characters seemed genuine for their roles, but something was odd and different about each of them.This was my first book by Ms. Barton so I imagine I needed to get used to her writing style and her attention to detail.There are some good twists to the story as well as some disturbing subjects that are addressed.All in all, THE CHILD is a good read that will keep you guessing.
The Child by Fiona Barton is a wonderful mystery read with some great twists and turns.A baby’s skeleton was found in a construction site and was named as the “Building Site Baby”.
The book is narrated with different POV’s , Angela whose baby was kidnapped at the maternity ward ,Emma who is hiding a secret for a very long time and Jude , Emma’s self-involved mother.
Will Angela finally figure out what happened to her baby a long time ago and will Emma’s secret destroy her marriage?I liked this book much better than Fiona Barton’s first book The Widow.
Kate's initial article about the tiny corpse strikes a chord with two women, former nurse Angela Irving and book editor Emma Simmonds.
Angela Irving gave birth to a baby girl, Alice, over forty years ago - but didn't get to take the infant home.
News of the uncovered newborn makes Emma very anxious, but we don't learn why until later.Most of the story is told from three rotating points of view: Kate, Angela, and Emma.Kate, an experienced journalist with helpful police contacts, interviews both Angela and Emma - and gets on the inside track with both of them.
For all my reviews, visit my blog at http://ladyjbookishnook.blogspot.com  My Review  I totally LOVED The Child by Fiona Barton. This mysterious and suspenseful story unfolds over a period of about a year (2012-2013), with flashbacks added from the 1970’s and 80’s. Each chapter alternates between four characters: Emma, Kate, Angela, and Jude.Emma is the main character and her chapters are told in first person point of view. Emma is a troubled young married woman who has a dark secret that haunts
Each chapter alternates between four characters: Emma, Kate, Angela, and Jude.Emma is the main character and her chapters are told in first person point of view.
Paul feels bad for her and tries to help but he is totally unaware of the burdensome secret Emma is carrying.
I didn’t like Emma at first but as the story progressed I had a different view of her.
The next character in the story is Kate, a reporter working for a newspaper called The Post.
I really liked Kate, she is pretty tough and wasn’t just after the story as a reporter.
The book is told from the perspective of four people: the journalist Kate, Emma and her mother Jude who used to live in the neighborhood where the skeleton was found, and Angela, whose baby was stolen from the maternity ward many years ago.
While it seems obvious the skeleton is Angela’s baby, the truth is more complicated than the set-up would lead you to think.The suspense was carried throughout the book, with enough twists and turns to keep things interesting.
Although this is a standalone, I liked the recurring character of the journalist, Kate, who we first met in the author’s first book, The Widow.
I devoured this book in a single day.
When the bones of a baby are found during an excavation, journalist Kate thinks there is a story there, even if finding who the mother was will be exceedingly difficult.
Angela, whose baby was stolen from her years ago, is certain that the baby is hers, and Emma, who battles a mood disorder and has been treated for mental illness, reads everything about the remains obsessively.Told from multiple points of view, the mystery of who this baby is will keep you turning pages.
Kate is the force that keeps digging and unraveling secrets.
Thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this book.For more of my reviews, please visit: http://theresaalan.net/blog/
Emma lived in the area that the baby's remains were found when she was growing up and is very troubled by the news of the discovery.I did like the characters in this book.
There were a lot of other interesting characters that are met in this story and I think each of them were well done.The mystery seemed rather obvious to me pretty early in the book.
Besides the main mystery revolving around the baby's remains there were some other issues that came up in this book and I thought everything worked very well together.
