https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/362017.Too_Late_the_Phalarope
People try to pigeonhole Paton's novels as being about Apartheid and racial tension or simply lump him in with other African writers as a good portrayer of South African life in the 20th century.I think that Paton deserves to be listed among the all-time greats of English literature.
The fact that his work is layered with the massive institutional sins of the South African racial laws simply makes his portraits of the multiplying and ravenous destruction of personal sin that much more powerful.
The result is a powerful parable, not just of the consequences of sin, but of the dangers of a graceless, unforgiving response to the failings of loved ones.
It has been likened to a modern-day Greek tragedy, with an admirable hero whose one weakness brings destruction not only on himself but upon his family; the narrator is his aunt, and selections from the hero’s own writing add depth to the story.Although some readers assume that Too Late the Phalarope is about apartheid or Puritanical morals, I disagree.
In a way it reminded me of people who suffer from depression and are unable to admit their need, are unable or unwilling to cry out.If you’ve read Cry, the Beloved Country (and liked it), I definitely think you should give this book a try.
"Yet it comes to me that it is not the judgment of God but that of men which is a stranger to compassion; for the Lord said, go thou and sin no more." The feeling of finishing a book that tips you into a better world and a better self and a greater heartbreak.
Paton has long been one of my favorite authors, solely on the strength of his book Cry, the Beloved Country.
So it's strange to me that I took so long (ten years!?) to get around to reading another of Paton's novels.
The simplicity of Paton's use of language sparkles, and the earthy imagery his characters pull out doesn't feel contrived but always poignant and spot-on with analogous meaning.Cry, The Beloved Country literally makes me cry every few pages, and this book was an excellent read as well, though I only teared up once or twice, it also made me laugh a few times.A Phalarope is a bird.I know it's symbolic of something because it's part of the title, but I can't quite put my finger on it, which makes me feel a little stupid.
This is my touchstone book. I check out every book store to see if they have a copy of it. I love everything by Alan Paton but I think this tells more about the repressive nature not only of apartheid but the society that produced it. It is a very personal experience. I lived this man,s fear and loneliness and intense personal struggle with his demons. It is told through the loving and sensitive eyes of his aunt, herself an outsider, and that gives it such a wonderful depth of emotion.
We'll be discussing this book in my book club on Saturday, so I may have different insight into it after hearing my friends' opinions.
It disturbed me that Pieter saw his sin to be a relationship with a black woman rather than his unfaithfulness to his wife, which should have been the real reason for his guilt.
Paton never makes a judgement about the racism being wrong, OR Pieter's infidelity being wrong.
As a result, the reader who understands that racism should not be a moral issue, is left feeling sympathy for Pieter, when what he did - cheating on his wife - was totally wrong.
And it is well written.The story is a classic Greek Tragedy: the tragic hero is one of high standing in society, everyone loves and respects him.
But he is not completely destroyed and actually in this case, I think the end result is all the better for Pieter and his immediate family.I like how Paton has adopted the Greek Tragedy, but set it into South Africa during the time of Apartheid, which also plays a big part in the novel.The main character is Pieter, who has a dualistic nature, half all hard and strong like his father, and half all soft and sensitive like his mother.
I think this book has a bit of weak start.
The narrators voice isn't strong and I found myself confused as to whether we were talking about Pieter or his parents.
Also, when you find out the narrator is his weak, fragile aunt he may have done this perfectly.Didn't anyone else think Alan Paton was describing a sex addiction?
Pieter didn't love Stephanie he was just using her.
It made my list of all time favorites and is a book you will never forget.
No one speaks to the human soul through the use of language like Alan Paton.
His exquisite use of prose is as powerful as it is lyrical.
While not as emotionally rich as his masterpiece, "Cry, The Beloved Country", this novel is almost as enduring in its scope of human nature.
One begins to really feel what it must have been like to be a white South African in a racially-divided world in post WWII almost as much as one can suppose the issues covered in the book are still faced to varying degrees by all South Africans today.
Reading Paton is like reading poetry...sublime, touching and beautiful.
This is a book that I bought years ago, perhaps as long as a decade ago, and never read until this past fall.
What a marvellous book Paton has written.
It is the story of young police lieutenant Pieter van Vlaanderen, whose illegal and suspect relations with the black residents in his district eventually lead to his downfall.
His relationship with his father is particularly poignantly drawn, as is the scorn and hatred which Pieter's wife feels for black people.
Excellent handling of tricky material and one of the most beautiful books I've ever read.
Too Late the Phalarope offers a devastating look into human brokenness, confession, and ultimately a failure of redemption. How many of us have secret selves? How many of us struggle to share those selves with others and fail? A painful, and beautiful book, although a bit rambling in style, this is the Paton that people should read just as often as cry the beloved country.
This is my favorite book ever. Paton has such profound insight on the topic of justice. I enjoyed this book even more than Cry the Beloved Country!
You certainly feel what's being portrayed without it being overly in your face.*I liked the way he completed the portrait of Pieter, the main character, and his family.
It took a long time to get to the climax of the story but when it did, I understood the reactions of his family members because their characters were solid.*This was an interesting and insightful study of the human mind and emotions, especially as it deals with guilt, love, and passion.*Kudos to Paton to writing about a sensitive topic without getting sexually graphic.
*The way Pieter was portrayed, it made it sound like his "dark, serious" nature was responsible for his attraction to the woman Stephanie.
There is reference to the fact that the father is the leader of the local branch of the National Party, and that he considers his son 'a Smuts man', and of course the central plot point revolves around an offence under the notorious 1927 Immorality Act. But the real themes are universal ones of familial relationship, guilt, and the possibility of forgiveness/ redemption.
The absence of any explicit critique of South African politics in the 1950s can feel strange, but is probably explained by the use of an elderly Afrikaner woman as the narrator.
I started reading this book during the wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle.
Reading this book was a perfect escape in time in another end of the world.
It was sad to see the end of happiness of such a beautiful family.
Tante Sophie is my favourite character.What makes me sad is Peter got "caught" when he was going to help Stephanie.
It was a sad end.
But as Tante Sophie said at the end, I do hope that character of Peter finishes his sentence, take his wife and kids and leave South Africa, may be go to UK, get a job there and settles down.
-- Handsome Afrikaner Lieutenant Pieter van Vlaanderen seems to have it all: a sterling military service record, a respected police career, a loving family -- he is even an outstanding rugby player.
But he gets involved in the life of a poor black woman Stephanie -- and this is the age of apartheid in South Africa.
(But, then again, this was not the story the author set out to tell.) Still, as one who loved Paton's 'Cry the Beloved County,' I was pleased to have read this, his second novel.
This second novel by Alan Paton, who achieved instant fame for Cry, The Beloved Country, is another work that highlights injustice in aparthied South Africa.
The novel is narrated by his Aunt Sophie, who idolizes her nephew but is often confused and hurt by his dark moods.
Admittedly heavy handed and somewhat contrived (how can she know what her nephew is thinking?), the narrative succeeds nonetheless by creating great suspense, even though we know in the end the great man falls.
Simply one of the best books ever written about human feeling, human struggle, and the need for people to know all of you. I loved this book for what it reminded me about myself and other humans. A masterpiece!
This book takes us into another world, showing the struggle of one man against his own heart in his own culture, and the far-reaching effects his failure has.
We know this from the opening pages, narrated by his elderly aunt, who is a nearly omniscient narrator throughout.
We hear the protagonist's voice sometimes, too.
But what happens when you're obsessed with the idea of possessing a woman not your own?
And you live in Apartheid South Africa mid-twentieth-century?
And you are from a deeply religious family with mythically-strong family traditions?The conflict is strong enough on its own, and in the hands of Alan Paton (*Cry the Beloved Country*) it is especially heartbreakingly beautiful.
Passage From Book: I knew a man that counted the days, each day, everyday, tearing them off on the little block that stood on his desk.
When April went, he would say, April’s gone, and wait for May to go too.
I never saw him on New Year’s Day, but I suppose he would have said, the old year’s gone; he was waiting for death, though he didn’t know it, because he was afraid of life, though he didn’t know that either.I have no recollection of reading this book - but a lot of highlighted material from it.
I suppose it must have been good.
A white police lieutenant violates South Africa's hard rule prohibiting inter-racial relationships and suffers the consequences for his actions.
For one thing, every time I sat down to read, I dozed off at some point.
In several places I had a hard time following that part of the plot in terms of the overall story line.
I also struggle with making the title fit with the story.
Yes, a couple of the characters go bird watching at one point and spot one but instinct tells me that it is somehow a reference to the lieutenant.
This is a good book but not as perfect as "Cry the Beloved Country" which is perhaps the best book I have ever read.
This book is more of Metaphorical if compare with Paton's best " Cry the Beloved Country".like Paton's other novels and work this novel is also based upon Apartheid environment.
Story is based upon the life of Pieter van Vlanderan and his family, Pieter a police sergeant who fall in love with a black girl and break the Immorality Act of South Africa for which he was later punished and sent to jail.
I can't decide what I think of this book...definitely a very well written book, I read the whole thing in a few hours, but I'm not sure how I feel about the story itself.
Set in post WWII South Africa the main issue is of course race; there are "Immorality Laws" forbidding relationships between blacks and whites.
Breaking these laws not only lead to prison, but disgrace for the entire family.
It's no surprise what happens in the story along those lines, but there are also family relationship issues that are somewhat explored.
3/5 stars This was a really interesting novel about the Aparthied laws in South Africa.
Although the topic was very interesting, and the writing style deep and emotional (I teared up near the end of this book), I found myself confused at many points.
Some of the stories that were branched into were hard for me to follow, and the Point of View was a bit difficult for me personally.
I also had some trouble distinguishing between some of the names (Japie and Kappie for example.
I had trouble with who was who.)Other than that, it was a pretty good book!
After reading, and loving, Cry the Beloved Country, I was looking forward to reading this.
I didn't like the way it was written at all.
The story was good, but the way of writing did not appeal to me at all.
The characters were not well-developed, and I just could not get into the story.
From the description, I knew that a white man was going to get into trouble for consorting with a black woman in South Africa in the time of apartheid.
The consequences for him an his family are terrible.
I just wish it had been told in a more interesting manner.
I clicked the five stars and then sat here thinking I really don't know if I can say that I loved this book.
Or even that I liked it.
But I certainly didn't dislike it or hate it.
It's one of those books that makes your heart ache for just about everyone.
Set in South Africa during Apartheid, the novel is about racism and colonialism, fathers and sons, husbands and wives, aunts and nephews.
It's about love and honor and betrayal and deceit and stupid laws.
It's troubling me and I know it will be with me for a long, long time.
On the surface, this is a simple story of forbidden desire. But, the themes stay with you long after: the driving power of lust, and the internal conflict of right vs wrong. It is haunting and tragic and real.
Can person's life be destroyed by one senseless act of passion? Can this destruction extend to his family? Pieter's tightly wound life becomes unraveled and events go out of control. Good suspense here. Also it's a good portrait of colonial racism.
Great writing, good story. When comparing this to Cry The Beloved Country, it just doesn't stack up. It's hard to have empathy for the main character because he is dealing with something specifically that is out of most people's realm of possibility.
Not a long story, but intense and moving. I often found my heart in my throat while reading and was sad to see it end. I will be thinking about it for a long time to come. Simply beautiful with a unique eloquence that has firmly earned Alan Paton a place on my favorite authors list.
