https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/407.Great_Jones_Street
Great Jones Street and The Box Man – so into yourself, so “society get out of my face.” At one point in DeLillo’s novel, girlfriend Opel tells Bucky about a new underground counterculture group: “The return of the private man, according to them, is the only way to destroy the notion of mass man.” Oh, Opel.
THE FIGURATIVE DEATH-IN-LIFE JOURNEYBucky wants us to know his solitary journey on Great Jones Street is only the literal way of looking at things.
This is a weird novel, but I kept feeling like this was an older relative of Cosmopolis, and happens in New York like that book, only a couple decades earlier (circa 1971-73, from winter to very early spring).
I did find myself loving the book from around midpoint on.It tells of how a Dylan-Jaggerlike figure of a singer, Bucky Wunderlick (now there's a name!), a skinny, somewhat sarcastic and detached sort of person, finds himself burnt out and decides to leave his band mid-tour, moving to a Great Jones Street apartment in East Village, New York.
Or read it until I say I'm going to drop a major DFW spoiler (not really I ended up not being nearly as spoiler-ific as I thought I would be, but there is till a major thing said that I believe knowing would make a first reading of Infinite Jest less interesting).I have a new theory about Infinite Jest and maybe others have had this theory too, or maybe I'm just full of shit, but I think a key to understanding parts of Infinite Jest might be the early works of Don Delillo.
Music, experienced in a crowd, confronts us with the experience of our own death or the experience of mass apocalyptic death.By walking away and breaking the pact with his audience, Bucky seeks out silence, an absence of or escape from language (which is itself the vehicle for social manipulation and control).
Meanwhile, he reconstructs his own language, starting with the word "mouth":"Soon, all was normal, a return to prior modes." (hide spoiler)]NOTES:Note 1:From the lyrics of the David Bowie song, "Fame"Note 2:The name of Bucky’s management company is Transparanoia Inc. I was never sure whether his unnamed band was also called Transparanoia.Note 3:Hendrix and Morrison were both 27 at the time of their deaths.
While there were parts of it that I loved (again and again DeLillo can throw out a sentence that seems almost electric; a prose version of a perpetual motion machine), he also tried several experiments with this novel that seemed wasted, or perhaps foul balls.
However, writing the lyrics of a famous, god-like, rock star is HARDER than writing a good sex scene.
Sex - DeLillo isn't bad at writing sex scenes, but he's not particularly great.3.
I'm not sure the book ever was skipping at 4stars or 5, but the ending definitely didn't raise it up in my estimation.
All good books, but none great are GREAT Delillo.
L'energia è la forza dell'universo e Bucky sente un dolore solitario, opaco e senza radici: ad assediare il suo equilibrio arrivano numerosi antagonisti, che ruotano tutti intorno al “prodotto”, una droga fantascientifica che agisce sui centri del linguaggio inaridendo la facoltà di parola, e dall'altro lato sui misteriosi e segreti nastri della montagna, giovanili incisioni acustiche del cantante che contengono la sua anima più sincera, oggetto taumaturgico per l'avido mercato discografico.
Folle che si accalcavano una contro l'altra, incatenate a una storia invisibile, e i più giovani di quel pubblico erano ben consapevoli che fra i bisogni umani ce n'è uno superiore a tutti gli altri, vale a dire il bisogno di essere illetterati in un mondo di parole che si cancellano da sole”.
When man started thinking abstractly he advanced from killing for food to killing for words and ideas”The borderline between the sixties and the seventies of the last century was the time of freaks so Great Jones Street is a freaky postmodern mystery.“All she desired was the brute electricity of that sound.
The state creates fear through force.
The state uses force eight thousand miles away in order to create fear at home.”Well, probably any time is the time of freaks and trash.
1936).Bucky Wunderlick, o narrador, é uma estrela do rock, que abandona o seu grupo musical no meio de uma tournée, num conflito existencial, insatisfeito com a sua vida, com a sua fama e que se refugia, incognitamente, num apartamento, sem mobília, em Great Jones Street, uma rua situada em Manhattan, Nova Iorque.
E peças de um acto.”.“Great Jones Street” é um livro que revela uma escrita elegante, mas intransigente na sua complexidade, com excessos linguísticos, revelações inesperadas e uma imaginação fascinante.“Great Jones Street” é recomendável para os fans incondicionais de Don DeLillo e para quem se interessa pela temática das estrelas do rock, entre a lenda e as suas vidas privadas, a euforia do sucesso e da fama, quase sempre efémera, da impossibilidade pessoal das escolhas e da privacidade, e dos rumores persistentes e das relações complexas entre um público que os venera e a indústria discográfica.
Set in the early seventies, a famous rock star abdicates and retreats to the dereliction and sanctuary of the titular Great Jones Street,NY..The themes and ideas are interesting,fame,privacy,freedom,the media etc.The characterisation is poor and the plot descends into the absurd.However the descriptive writing particularly in the opening chapters is excellent.I had higher expectations from a major writer.Two stars,maybe two and a half.
This particular volume ties reclusive rock stars, drugs, linguistic theory, and domestic terrorists as though it was casually commenting on the weather, complete with the usual exchanges featuring humor so deadpan it's sometimes hard to tell when you're meant to laugh.And it's a little rough around the edges.
There are also moments where DeLillo gets so lost in expressing his ideas and drawing connections that he forgets to tell a story or develop his characters, leaving you with conversations between people about passing underwear all around the country.
You get masters of disguise, writers of porn for children, unscrupulous businessmen, and of course, domestic terrorists and our reclusive rock star.
In his ongoing survey of modern America, DeLillo's third book saw him looking at art and commerce through the lens of rock music and celebrity.
One gets the sense that the narrator, rock star Bucky Wonderlick, having fled the stage mid-tour and retracted into a cold, empty apartment in a Lower East Side that was still both of those things (compared to its scrubbed, crowded modern counterpart), is somewhat paralyzed by his need to fully consider and understand what his actions mean, after years of skirting such introspection in favor of the constant sprint onwards.
la privacy, il successo, la droga e la fuga da se stessi...Bucky Wunderlich, una rockstar che parla 
I almost feel the same way with "Great Jones Street." He captures a certain aspect of New York that I find truthful - and the narrative of a legendary rock figure who decided to disappear in the middle of a major tour is interesting.
Like why Oswald even exists on this planet, we wonder the same about the lead rock character Bucky Wunderlick.
The plotting of the book is not that interesting, but the characters are amusing.
The whole political gangster aspect is not as interesting as Bucky sitting in his apartment on Great Jones Street, and commenting on his disappearance from the world.
". . . permanent withdrawal to that unimprinted level where all sound is silken and nothing erodes in the mad weather of language." Presages Cobain, or more so Yorke's "how to disappear completely". Fantastic sentences. Chicks don't dig it because it's ultra a-emotional, but dudes dig it for the cool response in the face of very good reasons for paranoia re: the system. Worth it if you've read Underworld and Libra, but probably not so hot if you haven't and therefore don't recognize nascent expressions of Donny D.'s later awesomeness.
http://5cense.com/17/534.htm
While I enjoyed all of Bucky's semantic riddles that he weaves with members of the media, managers, and desperate band members (think an even more glib and witty version of Dylan circa "Don't Look Back")I felt a bit disappointed down the stretch that DeLillo never allowed his creation a real sense of human vulnerability.
In his effort to make Bucky a soul-drained wanderer in a hyper-real media culture, DeLillo might have actually drained the man's soul, which leaves us mostly with a very clever satire, punctuated with moments of entrancing darkness.
Le voci sulla sua presunta fine si moltiplicheranno e tra le più seducenti prenderà corpo - proprio in chiusura - quella che lo vorrebbe a compiere "buone azioni, tra vagabondi e sifilitici, santo patrono di tutti gli individui che ascoltano il canto dei misteri delle sirene lungo il fiume e subito dopo tornano a dormire tra i fumi del vino ai confini meridionali della città".Un libro straordinario sul genere umano e sulla società portato avanti col solito linguaggio ironico, visionario e globale di De Lillo.
It’s similar in some ways to the writer in Mao II and the violent radicals in Players, which the former novel will place into concordance with writers and artists; we are told of a guy who has “been trying to create pressure along a fault with a series of very delicate TNT explosions,” to create an earthquake, “the greatest work of art ever achieved” (77)—very much Mao II, Point Omega, The Body Artist.
Radical corporeal disaggregation is not the only bodily economy; rockstar narrator notes that one corporation with which he does business “markets facsimiles”: Everybody under contract has his or her facsimile.
I think Delilo's writing is beautiful, but I have to say I've disliked his books more often than not.
"Great Jones Street" felt pretentious in its ramblings, its attempts to be a commentary on celebrity worship and drugs and love etc.
It's perhaps because I'm reading Delilo with the wrong attitude or the wrong expectations.
This is the fourth book of Delilo's I've read, and I would only put "Libra" in the ranks of greatness.
There is a bizarre paradox by which I love his writing but am strongly conflicted about his books.
DeLillo paints a dour picture of our rock star Anti Hero, Bucky Wonderlick. He is sensitive, but also needy. Needy of the attention he is destined, in his mind, to receive as a rock star. The plot was ok, but the resolution didn't feel quite right. I would have loved more details about Bucky's music and career, but that was not in the cards. Plus, Bucky Wonderlick is a stupid name, lol.
It feels like DeLillo writes his novels especially--maybe even ONLY--for me. I was floored by this book. No idea how anybody else will feel about it.
I decided to give Great Jones Street a reread after the recent announcement of the much-awaiting official release of Bob Dylan and The Bands beautiful 'Basement Tapes'.Is it the great rock n' roll novel it sets out to be?
Rock e vuoto.Un romanzo strano, dal cuore profondamente dondelilliano, che parla di creatività, linguaggio, stasi e alienazione. Sospeso, ma allo stesso tempo rumorosissimo.Tra quelli che ho letto, il suo più pesante e faticoso (me lo sono trascinato per almeno un mese), ma che viaggia sempre a livelli altissimi e che, terminata la lettura, lascia annichiliti.Il finale, fortemente evocativo, non so perché, mi ha ricordato il cinema di Antonioni.
briefly, I found this to have interesting post-modern dialogue, typical of both the post-modern genre and of my other DeLillo reads.
Review coming soon
Está sensación se produce de tal forma cuando leo a este escritor que me da casi lo mismo lo que está contando, lo que sé seguro es que este flujo de sensaciones me lleva y siento un placer hedonista al leerlo.En el caso de Delillo, afortunadamente, no cuenta solo el cómo lo hace, con ese estilo inigualable que le vuelve uno de los cinco o seis mejores escritores actuales; lo que cuenta también interesa sobremanera, y, a pesar de ser una obra primeriza (como era el caso de “Americana” de la que hablé este mismo año ) de fondo hay una serie de reflexiones que irán evolucionando a lo largo de su imprescindible carrera literaria.La historia es sencilla en su premisa, tenemos la retirada momentánea del músico Bucky Wunderlick, músico que es el líder de un grupo en su apogeo en los setenta y que siente que tiene que encontrar otra forma de hacer las cosas, encontrarse a sí mismo y demonstrar que puede seguir haciendo algo por la música y la sociedad; la música, en particular se convierte en verdadera protagonista:“El submundo está todo revuelto por una superdroga.
Not only is this book a remnant of the past, it is a remenant that is achingly birthing itself and has been, in the pop culture since 2000, finding new the voice of nihilism and "the void" to the youth culture.Back when Great Jones Street lacked an ATM and Country Blue Grass Blues wasn't a clothing store, there lived a race of children that repopulated a Manhattan that had become, frankly, Escape from New York.
A lesson in something or other.In Houston I left the group, saying nothing, and boarded a plane for New York City, that contaminated shrine, place of my birth.
Por eso, no resulta extraño que uno de los personajes admita, en un pasaje de la novela, ese giro hacia el interior que está larvándose silenciosamente como el presente del rock, como si el destino de las estrellas fuese convertirse en un sueño, en un estado de ánimo.
Esa clase de conmoción que aún sabe cómo sacar el impulso visceral de nuestro interior.Cada página de La calle Great Jones parece tocada por el lenguaje de la incertidumbre, aquel que transforma la realidad en lo que sea que haya ahí fuera, una sensación mezcla de vacío emocional y frenesí capitalista que DeLillo convierte en el idioma de los personajes y su tiempo.
tragically, nobel-worthy
3.75
