https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44925.Down_the_Long_Hills
I still enjoy returning to his books on occasion.Hardy Collins, seven years old, was on a wagon train headed west to Fort Bridger, Wyoming where he was to supposed to meet his father when his horse wandered off in the night.
He was followed by three year old Betty Sue Powell.
Massacred by Indian's in a raid.With only a horse, a knife, and the lessons learned from his father it is up to Hardy to keep them alive and get them to Fort Bridger.
I will definitely be looking forward to reading another Louis L'Amour story in the not too distant future.
Seven year old Hardy Collins follows--and so does the daughter of the wagonmaster, three year old Betty Sue. They find Big Red at dawn grazing a patch of grass and head back towards the wagon train only to find that disaster has struck.
The boy, the little girl and the big chestnut stallion have no choice but to head out into the wilderness.
What follows is a thrilling tale of survival, courage and ingenuity, enlivened by Louis L'Amour's gift for description and knowledge of the wild.
After the wagon train massacre, only Hardy (age 7) and Betty Sue (age 3) were left, along with Hardy's horse, Red. Trying to get to his father at Fort Bridger, Hardy must use all of the wilderness survival lessons his father taught him to get there alive.
The children face many dangers, from both animals and people.
In the meantime, Hardy's father hears of the massacre and rounds up a search party to find him.
But will he get to the children in time?At first, the pace was a bit slow.
But once Hardy's father starts his search, the pace picks up and the book gets better.
First line: "When Hardy Collins woke up, Big Red was gone.
Hardy had picketed the stallion himself, and with sudden guilt he remembered that in his hurry to return to the supper fire he had struck the picket-pin only a couple of sharp blows."So begins this story of survival and adventure for a seven year old boy and a three year old girl set in Wyoming Territory, 1848.I'm not sure how well they would do in real life but it made for a very good page turner.
Recommend to anyone looking for a survival story in the wild west.
Plus there is a sweet stallion!
Louis L'Amour continues to amaze and delight me.I did think the kids (especially Hardy) acted too old for their age, but overall...an amazing story.
This turned out to be one my favorite Louis L'Amour westerns.
I've read quite a few of his books and I would rank this one easily within the top 10, perhaps even the top 5.
It's a story of survival, a 7 year old boy forced to take care of a 3 year old girl for several rough days during a westward wagon trail trek after the rest of the crew was slaughtered and while his father searches and tracks him.
This one won a Spur award and was turned into a movie in the 1980's starring Bruce Boxleitner.
A nice quick read.
Authentic. Raw. Completely naked of frivolities and extras. Just solid, rich, pulsing story. The characters are believable and are described almost solely through their actions and the choices they make to survive. And yet I can picture them so much more clearly than many characters written today with pages of description. Gripping plot and not a single extra word in the pages. Clearly, Louis L'Amour was a fascinating writer and person who lived life to its absolute fullest. I would have liked to have met him.
This is one of my favorite Louis L'Amour books, probably because of the kids. I read it to my oldest when he and his younger brother were about the ages of the children in the story. The main protagonist, the boy, probably seems unnaturally precocious to most current readers, but I think if you put him in his time period and situation, it is possible.Lots of tense moments, love the smart thinking on the 7yr old's part (I remember being a smart 7-8 yr old), and a satisfying ending.I don't often reread books; this is one.
I was not particularly interested in this book for many reasons. One reason is that it swore another reason I did not like it was because it had a slow moving plot and it had very little action I honestly do not read these kind of books but it was required for school. I thought that it was easy to predict and I would recommend this book to any one who likes western books. I also think that it was a little bit to weird because it had almost no ending it just dragged on.
An excellent story from L'Amour, maybe one of his best.
3.5
After the Native Americans burn and loot a wagon train, two little youngsters are left to fend for themselves in the wild of the midwest. Hardy is seven years old and Betty Sue is just three years old. These two must fight for survival with multiply things that they have to fight along the way. One being the harsh of winter, that they must fight to live through, that might prove fatal when the father of Hardy has to make a tough decision on whether or not to pursue looking for Hardy.  Hardy Col
Hardy Collins is the main character to this book, along with Betty Sue, Scott Collins, and Hardy’s stallion Red. The midwest is a tough place for an adult to live in during the time of the Oregon Trail but let alone two kids under the age of 10.
In life, your goal is to look after or save a curtain person’s life; will Hardy be able to save little Betty Sue's life?I wanted to read this book for the chance to maybe relive history.
I wanted to learn about what it must have been like to have to struggle to live through all of the natural wonders that can put your life into question.
This book really meant a lot to me because I really enjoy reading old western stories.
I myself live in the country and that is where I grew up, on a farm and ranch.
So, throughout reading this book I really could relate as they would talk about living off of the land.
So if you are into old westerns and country books such as this then I really suggest you read it.
Overall to me, it probably has been the best book I have read from Louis L'Amour so far!
I still have plenty of other ones to read though also!
Not a bad read in a "Littlest Hobo" sense but too many non-sequiturs to suit my picky mind. Might have been more believable if the boy had been 11 and the girl 6 instead of 8 and 3. Too often he helped the girl onto or down from the saddle of a bareback horse. The boy had no problems getting a fire going when he needed one but nowhere did it say he carried matches. And why would an 8 year old be carrying matches early in the morning looking for a lost horse?
Two kids decide to continue traveling west after their wagon train is ambushed leaving them alone with almost no supplies. Very enjoyable story. It took a few chapters to get going, then I was fully engaged. Well-written and a happy ending. The story made me think about what legacy I am leaving my off-spring.3.5 stars.
Kids love this book. Even younger kids sit through it because they are so interested in the main characters, who are young children. My 2 youngest sat breathless & made me read during non school hours until we finished. Great story.
A great Louis L'Amour tale. The main character is a 7-year-old boy with lots of courage and pluck! A quick, satisfying read; one I have enjoyed repeatedly ever since my fourth grade teacher read it aloud to our class.
Easily one of the best L'Amour books. Fascinating and original story about a horse and two children struggling to survive in the wild. Highly recommended.
This is a great story and so well written. I resisted reading this, but my husband insisted. Terrific book!
Additionally, there's a fair bit of tension, as the kids deal with an increasing amount of threats (which begin overlapping in unpleasant ways), and the short length helps prevent it from getting too stale.
Many excellent ideas (Hardy fearing whether hiding the truth of Betty-Sue's parents from her is wise, Ashawakie's burgeoning respect for the "young warrior", a villain who ends up being an old enemy of Hardy's father, Hardy's derringer) go entirely unexplored.
The story actually drags a fair bit, being rather cyclical and--as expected, given the characters' age--low on meaningful action.
The shifts in POV come at awful times, robbing the story of meaningful character dissection (and lend it a tell > show vibe).
That wasn't going to happen, the wagon train was raided by Indians and everyone murdered, except for Hardy and three year old Betty Sue. Hardy had located Big Red, his horse who had wandered off, that search was the reason he and Betty Sue weren't murdered with the others.
This wisdom and faith that he and Betty Sue plus Big Red would some how survive and his father would find them.Louis L'Amour writings pull you into the adventure and the perils that the characters face.A great story/adventure that will tease your appetite for more of Louis L'Amour...👏
The hero is seven year old Hardy Collins.
His father has gone west and sent for Hardy to come and join him.
One morning he wakes up to find his horse has wandered off so he sets out to find him (with little three year old Betty Sue trailing after) and when they return the wagons have all been burned ...
still going west with only the horse which has no saddle so they can't even ride.
and the story ends with Indians and two outlaws all after his horse, when his dad and friends show up to rescue him.
Louis L’Amour writes an astounding action novel.
The details of Hardy & Betty Sue’s survival were the selling points of this novel to me.
It was strongly recommended by a literary afficionado on youtube.
In fact, there is no room for commentary: only action!
Thank God the characters survive.
It is a survival story!-Wanted to read for a while.
Heard that it was a good book from a literary afficionado on youtube.
It IS a good story, but with so little commentary, it is just a straightforward rendition of the action, there is little reflection on what happened, just what happened:
Its primary flaw is, unsurprisingly, its portrayal of Native Americans, who are presented as simple and violent people.
Contrast these Native Americans with the white characters, who are generally more complex and whose violence is more selective.
The only white character whose anywhere near as dangerous as the Native Americans in this book is a horse thief, Cal, who's a real sonofabitch, but he's an outsider among the whites.
For L'Amour's Native Americans, butchering whites is somewhere between a hobby and an occupation, and it's mainstream.But if you can forgive a book for being a product of its time, this one's a lot of fun.
One of Louis L'Amour's best.
Two children, 7 year old Hardy and a 3 year old neighbor's girl, are the only survivors of an Indian attack on a wagon train in 1848 Wyoming.
They must travel West alone to find Harry's father.
They are trailed by a Cheyenne warrior and a pair of outlaws, both parties are after Harry's valuable horse.
His father and two friends are also looking for them.
Can two children survive in a harsh wilderness with winter snows on their way?
Throw in an encounter with a huge grizzly bear and a pack of wolves, and you have an exciting tale.
I enjoyed this book because I liked all the characters in it.
I believe that louis L'amour does a great job making loveable characters that we love and care about.
At sometimes I had no idea if the kids were going to make it.
The one thing that i didnt like about this book was the very slow middle parts of the story i believe that it could have been a little more action packed.
I love all of louis L.amours books because they add a little fun and adventure to my day and i say this is just another of his pieces of work.
My Dad used to belong to the Louis L'Amour book of the month club.
We didn't have a whole lot of money when I was a kid and I remember how excited I'd be to open the cardboard box with a new leather book inside.
When I was about 8 years old, my Dad gave me Down the Long Hills to read because it had a boy my age in it.
I've re-read this book at least 100 times over the years, so I guess you could say I've been friends with Hardy, Betty Sue, and Big Red almost my entire life.
A fantastic journey set in the American Frontier with fully realized characters and an incredible, enthralling plot that left me engaged the entire time I was reading. This is the first book I've read by Louis L'Amour and it's definitely not going to be the last. Even though this book was written in the 1960s, it will always be timeless and a story that's worth reading.
As with all of the Louis L"Amour books I've read, this was excellent. A seven year old boy, a three year old girl and a huge horse are the only survivors of an Indian Massacre of the wagon train they were on. They persevered and finally met up with his father who was looking for him from the other end. great story
Down the long hills is a tense exiting book with a lot of bad and good guys. Henry and the little girl go to find big red and when they are out on the hill an Indian band attacks the wagon train. Henry know where fort Bridger his now he needs to make the journey. The book is like all westerns but with the twist of a little kid. Its a tense and exiting book.
