https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1095924.Home_Sweet_Homicide
This 1944 mystery probably only deserves 3 stars but despite some extremely improbable situations, I enjoyed this a lot. The kids have a naiveté that was adorable if unrealistic -- I don't know if children were that naive even in the 1940s! If you don't like cozies, though, this won't be for you!
This 1944 mystery probably only deserves 3½ stars but despite some extremely improbable situations, I enjoyed this a lot. The kids have a naiveté that was adorable if unrealistic -- I don't know if children were that naive even in the 1940s! If you don't like cozies, though, this won't be for you!
The perfect murder mystery for a young adult (which I am not, any more).
Their mother is a single mystery writer who clearly doesn't spend a lot of time with them so they're left to their own resources.
I like that the kids wanted to solve the mystery to get publicity for their mother's novels, and mostly did this by causing problems for the police who were investigating the crime.
Mostly the story follows the three as they go about their lives investigating the crimes and trying to set their mother up with the detective on the case.
Widowed mystery author Marian Carstairs and her three children try to solve their neighbor's murder in sunny postwar California without too much help from a pair of detectives.
The mystery is twisty enough but it's the kids' hijinks and the grownups' refreshingly adult exchanges that give this book its cult classic status.
Kudos for her progressive portrayal of a single mother who is perfectly capable of supporting, raising and loving her children independently, though happy to accept help from the right guy if he respects her and the kids from the start.
What an adorable book. The three children of a widowed crime novelist decide their mother needs fame and a new husband. So they decide to solve a local murder and give her the credit. It's a lot of fun! It was written in 1944, so it has that era's sensibility. Apparently at least one movie version has been made, so I'll definitely seek that out. This is a perfect travel book. Also, it cracked me up how often and how much those kids EAT!!! Hilarious.
Ok, so after having it on my iPad for almost a year I finally read it. The book was nice, as a child I would have probably really really liked it. Now it was just ok. But the Russian translation was really not so good. Too bad, cause it may turn some people away from the book.Also, made me glad I didn't have a stupid little brother. =)
I realize that this is an older work, but the mystery part with the young children investigating seemed a little far fetched. Any mother who neglects her children as this one does would have the children taken away. Also the resolution was a little quick and did not make sense to me.
I know Craig Rice is supposed to be very funny, but I was mostly annoyed by the forced humor.
Three precocious kids set out to solve the murder of their next door neighbor using crime solving methodology from the books of their widowed, crime novelist mother.
A romantic development between their mother and the detective lieutenant investigating the homicide if typical of a cozy, but in this case is entirely driven by the kids.The adventures of widowed mystery writer Marian Carstairs and her three clever and capable children: 10-year-old Archie, 12-year-old April, and 14-year-old Dinah.
When Marian refuses to investigate, Archie, April, and Dinah do so with great gusto, maintaining the pace with snappy patter.
**.Many years ago, I found a couple of copies of novels by Craig Rice.
I didn’t realize at the time that Craig Rice was a female writer.
The cover of the edition of this novel – one in the series of “American Mystery Classics” under the banner of Otto Penzler – proclaims that Craig Rice was the Dorothy Parker of detective fiction.
Tastes in fiction can change dramatically in a short period of time, so that hits of yesterday come out as flops in today’s world.
Saying that, I don’t think that this novel is worthy of revival in today’s world of mystery fiction.
Memories!I read this book countless years ago when I was much much younger, and then I saw the excellent movie! When I finally found a copy of the book I wore out from rereading, it had me so happy! It's entertaining from the first page! The children are fun and the mystery is interesting!
A funny, at times cute, though unrealistic mystery (but so many are). The kids are great and the mother/children relationship is wonderful. And the mystery has plenty of suspect and it keeps you guessing until the end.Some people may find it a bit too crazy, but I didn't and I really enjoyed it.
Cute enough. Lots of 1940s slang which was at times cute and at other times left me wondering what the heck they were talking about. A house coat for example must have meant something different to what it does today.
This is a pretty cute, feel good sort of vintage mystery. Although the adult in me who has watched a whole, whole bunch of Law & Order kept cringing. (Don't interfere with a police investigation like that! You are going to hamper the prosecution!)
I am so glad Dad told me about this book. I was fascinated to learn that my great grandma Boyce used the same King Tut language as a secret code when she was in school. Funny!Boy, are the kids clever!
It was ok. I probably would have liked it better when I was younger.
1944, the kids of a mystery writer find a body; cosy farce, with dark edges.When a nasty next-door-neighbor gets shot, author Marian Carstairs’ three kids find themselves extremely involved in solving the case, aided and abetted by a handsome police detective and his crusty pal.
Tom and Enid Schantz of Rue Morgue Press should be lauded for republishing this little gem, but personally I’d have preferred their informative introduction (about Craig Rice’s turbulent life with her real children) to have been placed after, not before, the charming story.
Its truths shade the gentle sweetness of Rice’s writing, making it seem quite heartbreaking in spots.
Overall, a snappy cosy mystery with “bite” (the fictional kids are certainly no pushovers...).
Aside from being rude to the cops, including the one they want to set their mother up with, they fabricate evidence, contaminate the crime scene, and basically obstruct justice at every turn.
Eventually, the kids become more likable as they begin to realize that people's lives have and will be affected by this murder and even turn some evidence over to the police.
It all ends well, but I wish the author would have made the kids more likable, not like I wanted them to be perfect, just not so irritating.
This book has charmed three generations of readers in my family.
My mother got the original 1944 release of this book as a young teenager and loved it enough to keep the book.
My sisters and I later read it and also loved it.
In fact, this is one of the few books whose title and plot have always stayed with me.
In more recent years, my niece read and also loved this book, despite the obvious generational differences apparent in the book.
I'm really pleased to see that the book has been re-released.
Really made me laugh out loud a couple of times. Told from the point of view of the children, it's fun for kids AND adults; kind of reminded me of the The Boxcar Children series from my youth, since the kids solve a mystery and kind of have to take care of each other and themselves. Just a very light-hearted, enjoyable read with mystery and even a dash of romance.
I was looking for the movie (which basically doesn't exist) and found the book instead.
It's not a great novel but ...
it's just like the movie, kind of a sweet innocent 1960s murder mystery.
I felt the joy of it was tainted for me a little bit by the true life story of the author (it's a woman, who suffered a lot of abuse and had a pretty sad life).
I didn't finish this, because i didn't really need to, but i was glad to find it and know it's out there.
This is more of the usual fun from Craig Rice. However you have to have a high tolerance for annoying kids. If i were the detective in this one those kids might have "walked in to a door" or "fallen down the stairs" during the course of the investigation.On the other hand if this is really what Craig Rice's kids were like then we at least know why she turned to drink.
E' un giallo così sciocchino e adorabile che lo rileggerei mille volte! Dico solo che abbiamo una mamma single scrittrice di gialli, i suoi pestiferi ma a loro modo geniali figlioli e uno strano omicidio. Lo stile della Rice è sempre gradevolissimo, così come il suo humour.
It was...sweet. And...cute. And...forgettable. It had nothing offensive in it, though. Just not my kind of book.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
