https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18796.In_Search_of_Lost_Time
When you read Proust, and learn to appreciate his extraordinary, dreamy, hypnotic, truly inimitable 
In this moment of recapturing the past, all that comes to us is the unadulterated form of the experience of pleasure.
The only way to recapture the past in a lasting way is through the creation of a work of art: which is where the book comes in.
When, in the last pages of Time Regained, Proust describes the incident of the “good night kiss” (one of the earliest episodes of the book), I felt like this did occur 40 years ago, given how long ago I read it.
I feel like people think of Proust as being stuffy and old-fashioned and all crusty and ancient, but I think a lot of that has to do with the subject matter (a lost time with superficial resemblance to Jane Austen's milieu), so it's kind of shocking to remember what else was going on while he was writing this.
Like you think you know what modernism is, it's like Ulysses or whatever, but then you find out it's got this completely insane cousin across the river who's just doing all these things that appear at first to have no relationship at all to everything you ignorantly thought you kind of understood at least a little bit before.
In the rest of this review, you can find out what Proust's books looked like before his well-meaning but unworldly editor decided that French literateurs would prefer something slightly different.(view spoiler)[1.
Marcel Proust and the Magic CookieTraumatised by years of living in the cupboard under the stairs and never getting a goodnight kiss from Aunt Petunia, Marcel can't remember a thing about his childhood.
Marcel Proust and the Abusive RelationshipMarcel and Ginny are not getting on very well.
Marcel keeps cross-examining her about what she's doing when she claims to be attending meetings of Dumbledore's Army and accuses her of having a lesbian affair with Cho Chang.
In reality, every reader is, while he is reading, the reader of his own self. The writer’s work is merely a kind of optical instrument which he offers the reader to enable him to discern what, without this book, he would perhaps never have perceived in himself. I struggled with Proust, on and off, for three years. I read these books sitting, standing, lying down, in cars and on trains, waiting in airports, on commutes to work, relaxing on vacation. Some of it I read in New York, some in Madrid,
Proust was writing at a turbulent time in European history: in the aftermath of the Death of God, as the fin de siècle high society of his youth was shattered by World War I, as new notions of psychology overturned old verities of human behavior, as every convention in art, music, and literature was being broken.
And much of his rejection of worldly sources of happiness, and his concomitant embrace of art, depends on this intensely first-person view of the world.In his emphasis on the subjective basis of reality, Proust’s thought is often oddly reminiscent of Buddhism.
Apparently, I needed a little wind-up to start and if the last 12 hours is any indication, I will need a wee bit of time to settle down from the mess Proust has left in my head.This is a book that feels like a hypnotic river that both transports, nourishes, warms and transcends.
Hell, I'm not sure I'm ready to look at myself that closely yet.Reading Proust was a bit like reading 'Finnegans Wake'.
Proust isn't trying to capture or interpret the night or dreams (although dreams and sleep do play a part of ISoLT).
Some short remarks, as I don't think I'm ready for anything more substantial:This is my third (fourth?) attempt to read the entire book, and I may have technically 'completed' it, as I've read all the pages.
But I'm at a total loss to describe what I've read.
I feel overwhelmed, almost like someone drowning, in trying to even explain what I have just experienced.
Maybe I'll try and read him again later.
Maybe later I could be ready.
البته به جز کتاب اول با عنوان طرف خانه سوان مابقی کتاب های این مجموعه را نمی توان چندان مستقل از هم نگاه کرد، وقتی کتاب اول را خواندید دیگر در جریان مسیری طولانی از مجموعه ای طولانی قرار خواهید گرفت.قبل از پرداختن به رمان لازم است بدانید که نباید انتظار هیچ گونه طرح داستانی مرسوم و معمول را از این اثر داشته باشید.
این ویژگی ها ممکن است عوامل موفقیتی برای یک رمان نباشند، اما وقتی که وارد جریان این رمان می شوید، با تجربه ای خاص و غیر عادی مواجه خواهید شد.
William Barrett, in “The Illusion of Technique,” outlines this totalizing aspect of modern thought well when he shows how time and again, the great thinkers of modernity are subject to the irresistible temptation to “reify the objects of their symbolism,” thereby becoming “victims of their own language.”Proust's approach to the whole question of how we may become wise differs from this mainstream in two ways: first, he avoids becoming a “victim of (his) symbolism” by adopting a “meta” stance vis-a-vis his own cognitive framings, and second, he validates the adequacy to experience of his methodology by continually touching base with where we actually stand in our most intimate dealings with the world through a close description of detail.
In another LIST book (1Q84) it was said that unless you have the opportunity to be in jail or have to hide out for a long time, you can't read the whole of In Search of Lost Time. Volume 1. Swann’s Way (★★★★☆)Volume 2. Within a Budding Grove (★★★☆☆)Volume 3. The Guermantes Way (★★☆☆☆)Volume 4. Cities of the Plain (★★★★★)Volume 5. The Captive (★★★★★)Volume 6. The Fugitive (★★★★☆)Volume 7. Time Regained (★★★★★)
The Six Steps of Kevin Bacon came to my mind at one point......Proust was incredibly ahead of his time with this concept; he nailed the interconnectivity thing.
(hide spoiler)]The Fugitive 3-star(view spoiler)[For the shortest volume in this work, this sure felt long.
(hide spoiler)]The Captive 4-star(view spoiler)[Jealousy and obsession.
(hide spoiler)]Sodom & Gomorrah 4-star(view spoiler)[This volume focusses on gay & lesbian sex.
(hide spoiler)]The Guermantes Way 3-star(view spoiler)[Part One: Too much Dreyfus; one very long Salon party.
(hide spoiler)]Within A Budding Grove (read March 2017) 4-star(view spoiler)[Proust does it again.
(hide spoiler)]Swann's Way 5-Star(read Apr/2011 and again in January 2017)(view spoiler)[Wow!
Il nostro giovane è passato dall'essere mammone ad essere terribilmente romantico.Proust è in grado di descrivere i bagni pubblici come se fossero una sala da tè.Non riesco a capire esattamente quanti abbia il fanciullo che va in vacanza a Balbec.
La cosa interessante è la cronaca dell'affare Dreyfuss, che viene superficialmente citato dai personaggi.Sono alle ultime pagine di questo volume e sto facendo fatica.
Il nostro eroe è sempre più disturbato e ritiene che infilarsi Albertine in casa sia un miglioramento.

Remembrance of Things Past, or as it is more accurately titled now, In Search of Lost Time, is often described as a semi-autobiographical work, so can’t we just read the books to know the man?
That’s one of the reasons why this work is regarded as one of the world’s best, and why it is as relevant to us now as it was then and as it will continue to be in the future In Search of Lost Time actually consists of seven volumes, the first being Swann’s Way. When these volumes were being translated into English, the translator changed the title, A la recherché du Temps Perdu, to a line from Shakespeare, “Remembrance of Things Past”.
همهی روزهای جوانی ما با رفتن به طرف خانهی سوان شروع شد، با عشق سوان گرما گرفت و روزها و شب ها گذشت تا به زمان بازیافته برسیم.پس از پروست باید ممنون مرحوم مهدی سحابی نازنین باشیم که به کتاب چیره شد و توانست دست به ترجمهی چنین شاهکاری بزند. مینو بر او انوشه باد!
همه‌ی روزهای جوانی ما با رفتن به طرف خانه‌ی سوان شروع شد، با عشق سوان گرما گرفت و روزها و شب ها گذشت تا به زمان بازیافته برسیم.پس از پروست باید ممنون مرحوم مهدی سحابی نازنین باشیم که به کتاب چیره شد و توانست دست به ترجمه‌ی چنین شاهکاری بزند. مینو بر او انوشه باد!
I read the whole damn thing, for which I feel like demanding a medal.
Nor do I like dinner parties that take longer to read about than they took to occur.
The main problem with Proust (and his admirers) is that they are convinced that the French aristocracy, with all their trivial concerns and all their trivial conversations, were actually interesting.
One of Proust's friends actually said that to him, but Proust was too status-struck to listen.The only character in the books I liked was Charles Morel, because he screwed everyone over and treated them like dirt.
Initially published in French between 1913 and 1927, Marcel Proust’s seven-part work In Search of Lost Time (also called Remembrance of Things Past) has undergone a befuddling series of translations.
All seven volumes of In Search of Lost Time can be found on my À-la-recherche-du-temps-perdu shelf.
The Captive¹ – my review (☆☆☆☆☆)6.
Time Regained² – my review (☆☆☆☆☆)________________________________________¹In the Modern Library edition, The Captive and The Fugitive are combined into a single volume, but I will rate/review them separately.²The Kilmartin–Enright revision of Time Regained is based on an English translation by Andreas Mayor, as Scott Moncrieff died in 1930.
Dopo averlo letto in una traduzione non molto soddisfacente, tento una rilettura in lingua, e provo la stessa sensazione di quando io, miope da sempre, esco dal negozio dell'ottico indossando un nuovo paio di occhiali con la gradazione aggiornata, e alzo lo sguardo verso gli alberi, e mi accorgo che quelle chiome che prima percepivo come macchie verdi sono in realtà composte di foglie.
Continuo a oscillare fra due sensazioni, fra “me lo ricordo così bene che mi pare di averlo letto ieri” e “ma l’altra volta non avevo capito proprio niente!”, e probabilmente sono vere entrambe, a turno.Ogni tanto mi fermo e tossisco, semisoffocata dal boccone troppo grosso di un periodo lungo due pagine.
The year of reading Proust. Amen. This was monumental, a life event, like having a child or losing a friend or seeing a wonder of the world. Proust himself, I imagine, must have been rather annoying, but this subtle and (of course) incredibly long rail was unforgettable.
After three thousand pages of eloquent prose (Allain de Botton once pointed out the fact the the longest sentence contained within Remembrance of Things Past can actually be wrapped around an entire wine bottle (he shows a typographical example of this by presenting the sentence in a circular form, literally)) I am at a loss in attempting to point out the more significant parts of the work, but I do remember bits and pieces.Much of the scenes are contained within the confined space of the literary salons of Paris.
Sodom and GomorrahLet's say three stars for interminable party scenes and seven stars for solo Marcel going on about grandma and dreams and seeing an airplane for the first time (maybe my favorite page/paragraph so far -- the end of 581 and most of 582).
More later -- it's hard to summarize since I've already forgotten so much, which seems like part of the point of Mr. Proust's massive project -- over time Marcel forgets Albertine; I've forgotten the first pages by the time I've reached the end.
At that pace, I finished the novel in about 4 months with a week break between each volume and a few days of desperate magazine huffing in the middle of Guermantes Way. I read half in the modern library classics edition and half in the newer penguin translation.
So I guess it is kind of draw which translation to go for.Proust's insights read kind of like well stated prose poems from a high school girl's journal at times.
I guess maybe all but Time Regained and parts of Swann's Way were like a super complicated YA novel.
Ho finito oggi "Dalla parte di Swann", ci ho messo solo un mesetto: c'è proprio tutto quello che mi aspettavo, la prosa lenta limacciosa e fluviale, l'analisi minuziosa di stati emotivi e di coscienza che neanche Sant'Agostino nelle Confessioni, tutto il mondo inizio Novecento, le citazioni artistiche che mi hanno portato a pratiche compulsive come quella di stampare da internet le riproduzioni delle opere citate per metterle in mezzo al libro, così la mia edizione economica BUR diventa un libro riccamente illustrato.
Every page of this book is packed with gorgeous, poetic writing and jaw-dropping, often hilarious psychological observation. Proust does not prop himself up with over-complex structures, is not confusing, is not gratuitously strange. He understood life preternaturally well and wrote about it preternaturally well. This is the novel of all novels. But read cautiously: Proust will dissect your most intimate thoughts and motivations, and he will be as accurate as a sniper. "All our final decisions are made in a state of mind that is not going to last."
Spoilers are hidden on Desktop.)"It was only a [book], but sighing deeply, he let his thoughts feed on it, and his face was wet with a stream of tears." —Reworking of Virgil, Aeneid, 1.464-465I had no deep familiarity with famous authors, having only heard their names in passing: Austen, Ovid, Virgil, Dickens, Shakespeare, Nabokov, Wilde, &c.I had heard of some individual works too; Don Quixote, War & Peace, Ulysses, The Three Musketeers &c.; but I had no conception of what time period they belonged to, or the types of works that they were, only that they were considered great works of literature (and mostly fiction; at the time I was unaware of many non-fiction works.)I decided, at some point, that I wanted to experience the fruits of these Author's labours; I did not want to live the rest of my life ignorant of these great works, as I had done up to that point; knowing only of Austen that she wrote a series of novels, knowing the names of a few, but not having read them; only hearing that Ulysses was an artistic masterwork, but never experiencing it.
This is a physically beautiful collection of seven books that I own, that I know I will never read.
He has a nice way with words, but he's not for me, especially now that I don't have to read gigantic classics anymore.That's not the problem though.
The problem is I can't seem to let go of these books, and I really should.
They deserve a nice loving home and someone who loves Proust.
I just love having these books sitting on my shelf, looking so posed and smart.
Leggendo le lettere di Cristina Campo a Gianfranco Draghi, m'imbatto in questa frase. E qui mi piace trascriverla:"Che potenza doveva avere la madeleine di Proust... ma tutto dipende dalle labbra che bevono."
In an almost autobiographical way, the life of the narrator of the novel almost mirrors that of Marcel Proust.Proust’s biographers have a great time identifying the models for his characters amongst the people who knew him.
To some extent, all writers recaptured memory before Proust, and all writers have certainly done it since, however, no one has done it with such charm, wit, intelligence and perception, and no writer has produced work which had such profound effect upon his readers.In writing 'In search of lost time', what interested Proust was the human relationships in real life situations.
E’ pieno di post-it e sottolineature a matita (perderò mai quel vizio?) perché in ogni pagina c’è un paragrafo, una frase su cui soffermarsi e riflettere.
Lo terrò in lettura perché questo non è un libro da tenere chiuso e riposto nella libreria, è un libro da tenere a portata di mano, sul comodino o sul tavolino accanto alla poltrona, per poterlo aprire in ogni momento in cui c’è la necessità di uscire dalla nostra frenetica quotidianità, per immergersi in un’atmosfera fatta di lentezza, di passato e di ricordi.
I’ve brought In Search of Lost Time along with me to all sorts of places, and it’s been an adventure when people ask what I’m reading and I say Proust.
He grows up, falls in and out of love, different types of love, and writes almost page long sentences because Proust is an amazing literary mind and his translators have preserved his distinct style.
It was a year long commitment to read In Search of Last Time and this upcoming Sunday when I’m not sitting down with the Proust reading of the week I’m reminiscing about reading times past.
