https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261604.Rhapsody
When you feel that way about the book's/series' namesake, it reflects poorly on the author.
She left her family to chase a boy and ends up in the company of monster-men Achmed and Grunthor, and they embark on a grueling, duldrum, underground epic journey (where her beauty levels up from 60 to god-mode).
Enough about Rhapsody; she's not worth it.
Another issue I had with the book was the forgone opportunity.
Plus I have issues with villains with the ultimate goal of destroying the world.
The book ends with a cliffhanger but I have absolutely no compulsion to read any more Haydon.
I absolutely adore this series. The characters are great, the world-building is AMAZEBALLS, and even my dad likes it (and my dad hates everything except LOTR).
(Too bad she's such an idiot - which brings us to...).The bad: The writing and characterization of the people in the book was pretty terrible.
The main character and name-sake of this book is basically a 1970's romance novel heroine, thrown into a fantasy novel (which was pretty funny, ac-tually, once I figured that out).
I ended up skip-ping over loads of stuff and just reading the dialog (because I did want to know what happened, the bones of the story and the plotting are really good), and I noticed that this author has the same problem with scenes - every little detail of every little action is related.
I curse the fact that I'm one of the sort of people that needs resolution, even if it means wading through three books of complete drivel.Achmed and Grunthor were the only reasons I didn't use this book to start a bonfire.
In fact that pretty much sums up the majority of this book.Even Achmed and Grunthor start to become a little worn by the end of the book.
What made them fun is slowly stripped away by their mindless devotion to Rhapsody and their increasingly out-of-character behavior.This book, the whole trilogy, actually, is little more than a romance novel wrapped in the thin disguise of a fantasy book.
Torturous volumes of Angel Sanctuary tops it, I think, but this has to come a close second.Rhapsody is an awful Mary Sue and every sweet chime of her irresistible voice and sweeping charm was an affront to my very being.
It was all for Achmed, my friends--one of the two likable characters in this series; both of which happen to hold minor roles before Rhapsody's shining brilliance.Sorry, my fingers got a way from me there.Oh!
It was my own fault that I had to live through four aching volumes of this (really gives a new meaning to Symphony of Ages--bloody ages) drivel and I should blame no one but me and stop being so bitter.
Here they float disjointedly with no real rhyme or reason for having been brought up at all.To Sum Up:Things I loved: Achmed (so much so that I’m actually rooting for him to pair up with Rhapsody), Grunthor, and their journey before, through, and just after ‘the Root.’Things I liked: The general setting of the world, and the idea of a story that spans several centuries and the disorientation the change in times has on the characters.Things I loathed: Jo, Ashe, random scenes which don’t seem to fit anywhere in the plot.
Not quite 3 stars but more than 2, and kind of a bore, really.
Neither the characters or the story or even the world itself was of any interest to me.
Overall though, I can't really say what it is exactly that didn't engage me, other than all those things I just listed.
The whole thing was rather bland, tbh.
But maybe that's because I'm past the age threshold for this kind of high fantasy*.*Piers Anthony, Terry Brooks, Stephen Donaldson, etc etc.* * * * *Vaginal Fantasy book pick for July
his face is disfigured, and this, too, is a mystery that is worth reading more of the trilogy to find out why.overall, i really liked most of the supporting characters (with two noticeable exceptions).
the two exceptions are another of Rhapsody's "adoptions", her "sister" and the other is Ashe, whom i have the feeling that the reader is supposed to like, despite his portrayal as socially inept.
also, the hood that covers the face of Achmed is interesting and intriguing, but the hood that covers Ashe is just irritating.
A fourteen-year-old royal-born boy is sent one thousand years backward in time, is completely unfazed by this process, instantly falls in love with The Most Beautiful and Obviously Intelligent Girl Ever in the History of Ever, and obviously they're soulmates, so it's totally cool that they have lots of sex.
Gosh, how utterly romantic, and obviously the truest and most important love that has ever existed.
Then he gets zoomed forward to his own time before he can meet her family and take her away to his palace, so he screams and weeps, and his wails cross the boundaries of time to reach her tender ears.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. A wonderful beginning to a great trilogy. Love the characters, especially Achmed and Grunthor. Great emotional resonance among the players and an excellent plot.
Seldom do I find an author so astounding that I would deem them a word smith.
Within the first few chapters I was enraptured by the tale unfolding, nearly throwing the book away in despair and defiance after a poignant moment.
The imagery of the world, the characters and everything flows in a way that works like the finest tunes from the finest minstrels.
It's an amazing experience of emotions I don't think I've ever experienced quite this way.I'm looking forward to the rest of the series of this epic tale of a world across millennium.
I mean, if you don't mind overblown melodramatic love confessions twenty minutes after one person has met another, you won't mind this book.
Also, this book builds up the girl's character at the expense of all the other girls in the story.
I mean, SHE'S a special snow flake while all the rest of them are coarse farm girls.
The way it's described, it seems like a bloody storm is occurring inside his body particularly the nether regions if you know what I mean.So nope.
She's overloaded with powers, always gets her way (so much so that Achmed, the only person who ever successfully stands against her, even acknowledges it as its own power that even works on him), is kind to children and cares for the sick and a million other things that just make her seem like an idealized, unreal heroine the author wishes she were.
You couldn't help but like him for saying no to Rhapsody so many times (and for not killing her), but I don't think the author understood him any better than Rhapsody.
Although I guess I like her, I simply cannot stand her uber Mary Sue character.
But I really enjoyed the author's humor which showed through the banter exchanged between the close friends and allies, and I became somewhat obsessed with finding out what happened to the two young lovers that we met in the first fifty pages or so.
Ugh. I used to like Mary Sue-ish characters, but for some reason, these days I have less patience with them.
(hide spoiler)] I liked how Rhapsody seemed to be a relatively strong female character while remaining feminine but...I didn't really like her.
AudiobookFirst off (don't you love it when a paragraph begins with "First off"), I could not believe the amount of time they were inside the tree.
So there goes 1000 pages or so of the first chapter (or it felt like 1000 pages) and then after more walking outside of the tree with a battle here and there, there's a cliffhanger ending.
After listening to over 3000+ pages (as I said it felt like 3000+ pages).
I have no idea why anybody would love this book because by the end I pretty much had it with all of them.
I don't want to spoil the story for you, but the elements that hold my interest, in no particular order, are:a butt-kicking female protagonist, weird creatures with a nasty, sarcastic sense of humor that would give Hugh Laurie's Dr. House a run for his money, time travel, magic, and a gorgeous, mysterious man who happens to be part dragon.
I am not especially squeamish (I read vampire stories and murder mysteries when I'm not reading fantasy or SF), but Rhapsody and every other book in the series has at least one passage that I found hard to handle.
I ended up skip-ping over loads of stuff and just reading the dialog (because I did want to know what happened, the bones of the story and the plotting are really good), and I noticed that this author has the same problem with scenes - every little detail of every little action is related.
Future self: this is a case of an interesting plot ruined by an author - don't bother!
If you're anything like me, you'll occasionally end up finishing a book that contains characters you absolutely hate that put themselves in the most ridiculous and over the top unbelievable situations.
Those characters that you'd like to enter the book just so you could punch/shake them because they're so annoyingly stupid.
I like to call it hate reading.
Well, this series was like that for me.
Because she's that much of a Special Snowflake™!I still don't understand why I bought and read every single one of the books in this series, but I did.
The character's were unlikable.
The concern with purity was so extreme that it became fetishistic, and the main character going from attractive to so beautiful men couldn't control themselves around her is incredibly problematic.
The things this book says about the author are alarming.
It is the standard to which I set all other books that I don't like.
My dislike is so powerful that when I find out someone likes this book my regard for that individual immediately lowers, and I subsequently question all future recommendations they make to me on every subject...
This is the only book I would ever burn.
The primrose, usually the first flower of spring (from the Latin “prima”), represents enduring love. In the Language of Flowers, it means “I can't live without you.” It tells your significant other, “I am yours forever.”★★★★ The world-building in this epic romantic-time-travel-fantasy is superior, the characters wonderful. Some people find Rhapsody, the heroine, to be too much of a “Mary Sue” – if that is even possible for someone with her back ground! I found her delightful and felt her losses.
The primrose, usually the first flower of spring (from the Latin “prima”), represents enduring love.
In the Language of Flowers, it means “I can't live without you.” It tells your significant other, “I am yours forever.”★★★★½ The world-building in this epic romantic-time-travel-fantasy is superior, the characters wonderful.
**shrugs** Go figure.This book is spell-binding, the characters anything but cardboard cutout figurines – so often found in other books – and the mystery entertaining.
I’m guessing the heart – or romance – comes in the second book; one I’m looking forward to!
Plus, I’m hearing rumors of seventh book, The Merchant Emperor in Spring, 2012.
This only gets two stars because Achmed and Grunthor are pretty cool characters. Otherwise, it would be a one star book for the atrocity that is Rhapsody.
There comes a time with mediocre doorstoppers when you put the book down, stare at the wall, check the page count yet again, & say: "I don't give a rat's ass about this.
As I've said in other reviews, I don't necessarily mind Tolkien homage in one's epic fantasy (example: GREEN RIDER), but the book still needs to differentiate itself somehow.
It needs to be, y'know, good.
By the time I'd asked myself why I was still reading, my brain had already checked out, run to the library, & stopped for Starbucks -- because caffeine & better books are the cure for everything.
won off of www.librarything.com
I also liked the world that was built, in which elf- and orc-analogs are accompanied by a handful of other races, each with their own characteristics.My very favorite part of the book is a beautiful metaphor of leaving doors open in a house, finally allowing Rhapsody to reach closure in her grieving.
Not only is there a reminder on each page that Rhapsody is the most beautiful woman in creation, but every other element of the story and mythos are repeated at least three times just to make sure that the reader caught it and knows how things will work out.The worst problem is (frequent) inconsistency.
I had three motivations behind the reread: I really enjoyed it the first time around (about ten years ago), I caught wind that the author is finally back to writing the series and wanted to get ready for the next release, and I felt compelled to figure out why I seldom recommended it even though I really liked it.And what's not to like?
It's a shame too, because this really is one of the most memorable, unique fantasies I've ever read and would love to share the story as a whole with more people.Overall, if you have the motivation (and time) to suffer a long winded book (and series) for an epic payoff, then you could possibly get the same enjoyment out of it as I have.
Rhapsody is the first in a three-book series and is a fantasy quest saga crafted in the Heroic Age style.
The author demonstrates significant creativity in the construction of fictional characters and civilizations in an unfamiliar world with the overarching theme of, you guessed it, good vs.
To me, a work of fiction such as this must be at least believable enough for the reader to be mentally transported into the action and participate vicariously with the characters.The end sequences of the book seem a bit rushed as if the writer was ready to get on with book two.
Rhapsody by Haydon, Elizabeth was the CHIZ!i seen bitch ass bitcheZ talk shit on this book goin on about it being carpthem chumpz iz WRONGRhapsody: Child of Blood gets the DADDYS seal of approvaland it simply ROXXXand ima tell you why1: Writing - this book my have a few granny porn elements to it but over all the story keeps you enthralled.
R:COB is interesting, Funny as chiz, and it seems to be setting up a crazy fucking story thats about to unfold on mad bitcheZ.overall R:COB roxxx theres little to no letdown besides maybe the 20 pages of granny porn.
This is acutally the second or third time I've read Rhapsody, and I'm enjoying it just as much as all the previus times.
Elizabeth Haydon just writes such great relationships!
If she wrote a book that was nothing but Rhapsody, Grunthor, Achmed and Jo hanging around and taking, I'd probably read it and consider it time well spent.Rhapsody is more than a bit of a Mary Sue, but it's more than made up for by the banter between the major characters.
It's a nice, plain epic fantasy, and then you book-end it with this weird sci-fi time manipulation crap?
So I am in minority because I hate this book.
I really hate this book.
I have never been so disappointed in a book when I picked this up and started reading it.Now, to be fair, I'll admit by distaste started very eary.
I really don't like graphic sex scenes with 13 year olds.
I know, I know, teens have sex all the time, but I don't want to read about until they're legal.
The made me want to throw the book across the room bit.So the heroine and her posse (such as it is) seem to travel underground forever.
I read the first fourty pages but this novel just didn't work for me.The hero was time warped by some type of deity just before the fall of a previous civilization.
So we then spend too much time as this character meets a potential love interest.
Lastly, the mentalities are little too contemporary to fit into the equivalent of a medieval, agrarian culture without a special explanation.My feeling is that this story would have prompted me to read more if there was more detail of the old civilization, other conflicts which could add some texture, less predictability andmore Historical details.
