https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/976357.Camber_the_Heretic
917 is a bad year to be Deryni. An underage prince assumes the throne. The regents with one exception are anti-Deryni. While there are hopeful moments in this book. It is grim and violent at times. The Deryni series remain one of my favorite fantasy series of all time.
Camber himself (very much alive and unsaintly) is still continuing in the role he took on midway through the previous book, and has established the Camberian Council to try to work from the shadows to mitigate tensions between the humans (some of whom still remember Deryni oppression and/or look enviously at Deryni-held lands and wealth) and the Deryni (some of whom are still bitter over loss of privilege when Cinhil overthrew Imre and restored the human Haldane line to the throne).
And now I suppose at some point I'll have to read all of the other books she's written, both the ones between the Camber & Deryni trilogies and the ones that are set after.
I had read the Chronicles of the Deryni before I read any of the Legends of Saint Camber.
One of the best things about Katherine Kurtz is she is not afraid to kill favorite, beloved characters.
If you want to start with a series of books by Katherine Kurtz, Camber of Culdi is the start of this series and a good trilogy to start with.Otherwise start with the Deryni Chronicles, Deryni Rising being the first book of that trilogy.
Again, reading with Judith Tarr on Tor.com.I've been getting around and getting around and getting around to going back to this one.
But I was talking with a friend at Christmas who pointed out that there's no point in immersing myself in grimness if I don't feel up to it.
The world is grim enough at it is.I decided she was right.
I've read this before.
I also don't know that I need to read about greedy, power hungry, racist and sexist men taking power and only using it to give themselves more and hurt others.
That's a bit too real right now.
I've read the books in the trilogy several times.
While this book is not a light-hearted read, or deals with topics that are entirely cheery it does reflect societal and social topics that continue to plague us in the world even today.
Watching characters grapple with issues, fail at times, or even have events over-take them, is honest and true to the situation.
I think this book which continues the events of the first two novels does this brilliantly - and sets up* the the entire series and the next trilogy brilliantly.
Whenever there's a Mass, I actually feel like I'm at Mass in real time.
( Click here for the series in chronological order).Anyway, these are kind of like, but not quite, alternate history novels, with a sort of catholicism being the main religion and even biblical epigraphs at the beginning of each chapter, but there's magic and mental abilities, which seem to be racial (and hence the racial tension), but maybe the magic comes from the divine, which clearly exists in this world.
Really neat ideas for a world.
I wont go through reviews on all of these novels -- much like Robert Jordan, its about the first six-eight that are incredible, and then the quality tails off noticeably.However, the end of "St. Camber" and the entirety of "Camber the Heretic" are easily some of my favorite fantasy novels.Not to go all spoiler-ific, but I LOVE tragedy -- its more lifelike -- and this entire series is littered with nearly enough to satisfy even the worst reader masochist.My best guess is that George RR Martin learned about killing protagonists from Katheryn Kurtz.
All in all, each book is a quick read, and as long as you quit reading around "Harrowing", you wont be too disappointed.
Cinhil has been protected thus far by Camber, and his family, but a small group of well-connected humans, who will now be regents to the future king of Gwynedd, will do anything to seize power and destroy the Deryni the fear so much.
Can Camber and his family stop them yet again and spare their magical race from destruction?Ms. Kurtz has an amazing way of putting human emotion into words that will make any reader feel exactly what her character's endure.
She can take a magical race of humans and make everything they do seem real and believable.
A wonderful ending to the Camber of Culdi series.
I am glad that I started here, as getting the background history on the Deryni situation has really changed my view as I started the Chronicles of the Deryni series that I started.I didn't realize how attached to the characters I was until a few of the main ones died off, and I felt totally depressed and bereft about it.
I guess I didn't finish on hating Camber as much as I did at the start.
I have to say that I am so glad that Evaine existed, as the book needed a strong woman presence to even things out a bit.All in all, I loved this series and already started the next Deryni series.
SO MUCH BETTER THAN SAINT CAMBER. Also so dark and depressing and about fighting for rights in a time with treacherous "leaders" who plunder the land. Soooo, um, there it is.
Great story, but I'm much more sympathetic to the human characters than I was when I first read it.
I started reading the Deryni series quite a while ago. As I re-read this trilogy I wonder why I ever stopped. I look forward to reading all the books in chronological order.
Great finish to the trilogy. Leaves hope in the middle of darkness.
I struggled through this series and whilst I found this the best of the three it was still very slowly aced and over descriptive
Third book (chronologically) is the Deryni series. A heavy body count sets the stage for the next generation of leaders. Love this series!
Cinhil's flawed children are little protection, and soon Camber and his intimates are struggling to save what few Deryni they can - through any means at all.It irked me more in this book just how convenient the magic often is, and how poorly described.
Haldane access to magic is not explained either.The moral ambiguity of the prior books in this trilogy continues.
I'd like to believe that Kurtz was deliberately writing a novel about a sinister, Machiavellian crew, from their own point of view, but it's all too clear that we're meant to believe in the Deryni cause, and to excuse their means in favor of the ends they aim for.
===== Rather lackluster but essential reading for Deryni loyalists =====This book is too long.
There is love mostly based on devotion to responsibility, duty and station, but, with few exceptions, it fails to move the reader’s heart for the characters (albeit there is one exception to that which comes just a few pages from the last page of the book.) So, this is overall a dreary and dark tome that drags the reader along, mostly out of his/her loyalty to follow the Deryni chronicles no matter what.This book continues the Camber of Culdi/Alister Cullen subterfuge.
We have our same old cast of characters dealing powerlessly and ineffectively with the anti-Deryni backlash that was predicted in book 1.
This ain't no feel-good fantasy.Objectively, the primary characters have done a terrible job preparing over two books.
On one hand, this is annoying as you are always hearing about some event, but on the other, if she had written all these event out, she would have produced a Russian epic without the interesting parts.
(Are there any interesting parts in a Russian epic?
Good guys are ineffective.
If you want to see what happens next, pop off and read her earlier series where good stuff happens again.
All the Deryni books are absolutley amazing, but I think that the three Camber books are the best of the lot.
The Deryni are a race of humans that possess unusual talents, most of which could be classified as ESP.
Wnen the Deryni fall out of power, the backlash is nasty indeed.However, even in the darkest moments of history there is joy as well as despair, and love as well as hate.
This book contains one of the best love stories I have ever read, and some of the strongest loyalties I have ever seen.
It is, without a doubt, an amazing story.
To be fair, the first two thirds of this book I'd give only two stars, while the final third I'd give four stars.
My biggest problem is this: the majority of this, the last in the Legends of Camber of Culdi series, is pretty slow going.
It is just setting up the problem, and it takes forever.
Once things finally start happening, the book is over.
As is the trilogy.
which bugs me, because now I'm invested in these characters and their actions, and I want to know what happens next.
I haven't read the next trilogy yet, so we'll see...
I often follow history and sometimes current events through the filter of novels that I've read, and I decided to re-read this because of a scene that popped into my head during the news coverage of Pope Benedict's resignation and the descriptions of how the new pope will be chosen. (view spoiler)[ "A vote for...Alister Cullen!" (hide spoiler)]This book has a very powerful narrative, which makes me immediately want to re-read the next book (by internal chronology The Harrowing of Gwynedd). Despi
I often follow history and sometimes current events through the filter of novels that I've read, and I decided to re-read this because of a scene that popped into my head during the news coverage of Pope Benedict's resignation and the descriptions of how the new pope will be chosen.
(view spoiler)[ "A vote for...Alister Cullen!"  (hide spoiler)]This book has a very powerful narrative, which makes me immediately want to re-read the next book (by internal chronology The Harrowing of Gwynedd).
Despite being written as the final book of a trilogy, Camber the Heretic also serves to set up "what happens next?".

This trilogy just did not hold up on the re-read.
Now not only were the protagonists all incredibly arrogant, they were all obsessed with secrecy for reasons that are never clear (or consistent) and frequently the actions taken were dumb and without good reason.
It is never explained why certain decisions were made beyond a "required for the plot" and it kept throwing me out of the story.Plus, if you're feeling victimised because people keep accusing you of running a conspiracy to cling to some sort of power, don't form a secret council to manipulate the legitimate government.
It just makes you look ridiculous.
Another popular author whose popularity escapes me. I liked elements of the Camber of Culdi series I found in this book but it didn't hook me.It was only many years later, reading the essay "From Elfland to Poughkeepsie" in Ursula Le Guin's The Language of the Night that I think I got a handle on what subconsciously bothered me at the time I read it. Le Guin's essay discusses what makes fantasy "fantasy" and takes a passage from Kurtz's Deryni Rising to show what is most definitely not.
Conclusion to the Camber trilogy. The backlash against the Deryni gets out of control as Cinhil dies and an anti-Deryni regency controls the new, sickly young king. The body count of major characters was quite high by the end which seemed quite realistic for what was happening in the book. Really good series, I enjoyed re-reading it after so many years.
Similar to the other books in the trilogy, the story is intriguing enough to keep you going, but there's not many characters to sympathize with. Added to that, it doesn't really wrap up the trilogy well and leaves a kind of cliffhanger ending even though it is the last book in the trilogy. I'm still a bit torn as to how I feel about this book and about the entire trilogy as a whole.
I loved Camber, and his children, but this was the one when I started to think, Things are getting from bad to worse . . . Not in the quality of the book, but the level of tragedy she was asking her characters to endure!
This book is hard to read because of all the backlash against the Deryni - just because they are special. Prejudice is never pretty and this book is no exception.
For some reason it took a while for me to read this. I miss all the free time I use to have. For having so many books in a series it continues to be good.
love the combination of high religious ritual, the saints specific for certain qualities, and magic.first read 1981
