https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582171.Microbe_Hunters
The writing is probably dated now, but the way it captured the excitement of research discoveries convinced me to pursue this as a career.
I'm almost 61 years old now and retired, but I spent over 35 years of my life pursuing this career and never regretted it.The book discusses the giants of germ theory and does so in a way that makes these scientists approachable as real men with real emotions.
As a lifetime scientist who was first tempted to pursue my career when I read this book, I am glad it can still remind me that I made the right choice.
Read for the 2015 Reading Challenge: #25 A book you were supposed to read in school but didn't.
This book came to me thanks to my fist Microbiology class “General Microbiology” which was my favorite.
It is a simple book with all the mayor microbiology discovers, told in a very light and interesting way.
No recuerdo porque jamás lo leí por completo, pero en el momento en que vi ese reto del Challenge me dije que lo leería.
De verdad te ayudara a recordar situaciones o fechas que un maestro quiere que prendas y hasta te sacara una que otra risotada.
Imagine, in the 18th century, the first human being on earth to look through his crude, home made microscope at a living microbe.
Late in the 19th century, Louis Pasteur figured out ways to kill bacteria in livestock, wine and beer, and ultimately humans.
Imagine comforting a grieving mother hysterical about her baby dying of diphtheria with a cure!
They were the first to figure out it was mosquitoes and ticks or even just drinking water that passed the microbes along.
Simply knowing to wash hands, boil drinking water and stay away from mosquito bites improved the human condition immeasurably.
¡Me encanto! Es un libro fantástico, con una combinacion perfecta de ciencia, humor y dramatismo. Además, presenta un leguaje entendible pero sin dejar de lado ciertos términos pertenecientes al lenguaje científico, por lo tanto, no hay una gran dificultad en su lectura.Es un magnífico libro, te hace sentir emocionado al conocer los triunfos, las derrotas y la vida de los cazadores de microbios en su intento por resguardar a la humanidad de los minúsculos peligros a los que nos enfrentamos; inspira a querer tomar un microscopio y salir en la caza de los pequeñisimos seres que han asombrado al mundo.
I've read this book when I was 16 and later when I was 23. I guess it shaped my life. It is maybe why I work today with the miniature world of microorganisms.
FINALLY worked my way through this one! Not sure why I got so bogged down towards the end. Maybe it had something to do with all the action moving to Africa and the very of-the-times but still awkward for a modern person to read racism kicked in? Nothing outright awful just terminology and tone, but still weird for me. Mostly though it was interesting to read about microbiology in the days before DNA discovery, which now plays such a huge role in ALL biology. And impressive how much work they could do with viruses without being able to see them.
Interesting account written in the 1920s prose in which the whole world is filled with wonder and a frank account of the harsher realities. I love how lots of people gladly volunteered their lives in a gamble for a cure; not sure a) nanny government would LET you and b) if perfectly healthy people would subject themselves to same torment. I also enjoyed seeing the retelling, if to be believed, of these peoples' lives -- such strong personalities.
Un libro super interesante, genial, nos narra cultura científica de una manera sumamente digerible, 
The characters, their actual process and what techniques needed mastering just to even study microbes is all very clearly explained with great colourful description.
I've read that many of the great modern virologists and immunologists say this book was the first introduction that really made them curious as school boys and girls.
This book is the primer for all further reading in microbes, disease etc.
Reader need not have any science background to understand and appreciate this book.
OR when we forget and don't save history or read history, this too is highlighted when science must start again.
Beginning with Leeuwenhoek, with chapters on Pasteur (x2), Koch, through Bruce, Walter Reed and Paul Ehrlich, the essays span the time period from 1650 to 1910.
What is particularly impressive is his ability to set each researcher's accomplishments squarely within the context of what was known at the time.Warning: sometimes the language is archaic (Paul Ehrlich is described repeatedly as a 'gay man'), sometimes it goes way over the threshold of political correctness ('darky assistants').
Best to make allowances for the time at which these essays were written, find a comfortable chair and lose oneself in the excitement of the stories of these extraordinary scientists.
Easily the most entertaining book on microbiology I've ever read. Which isn't too hard, because I've only read textbooks until now. Fun read if you want to learn more about the science of bacteria and viruses.
De Kruif trae a la vida a los pioneros de la Microbiología con tal encanto que te transporta a ese momento y te imaginas tal cuál pudieron ser sus aventuras. Los detalles con los relata los momentos trascendentes de estos pioneros de la ciencia son exquisitos. Es un libro divertido y además sus historias capturan la mente y modos de estos científicos (algunos más famosos que otros) y se zambulle en los misterios y peripecias que se enfrentaron siguiendo su pasión por descubrir más.
This was one of the books at grandmother's cottage in SW Michigan which I read up there one summer a couple of years before entering high school and taking my first real biology course. Basically, it consists of twelve inspiring biographies about the founders of microbiology. I was certainly inspired. Reading the book made me think about becoming something other than an astronomer or cosmologist.
I put off reading this for so long because, really, it looked so boring! I tell you now, in all seriousness, this is the best book about science I have ever read. And, it was written in the 1920s! Seriously, I would actually use the word "swashbuckling" to describe this tale of scientists hunting for microbes. Great characters, good story, excellent writing. Highly recommended!
Un buen ejemplo de cómo explicar la ciencia a través de las "aventuras" de personajes como Leeuwenhoek, Koch o Pasteur, y sus esfuerzos por descubrir el origen de enfermedades endémicas, auténticas plagas en su tiempo.
No se como describirlo pero este libro se ha convertido en algo especial para mi, me encanta como esta redactado y creo que llego a mi vida en un momento bueno y bonito
He perdido la cuenta de las veces que he leído este libro. Tengo tres ediciones distintas, creo que necesito la edición en inglés XD
This a tough one for me to rank.
So here I am at the end thinking about inherent racism, sexism, and moral ambiguity of medicine and history.
In some ways that is a good thing.
In other ways I just want to live in that fun, light style and not have to think about all of those difficult subjects.
I don't think it was intentional.
I don't think it was intentional.
Some I can look at objectively, but the malaria/Africa chapter was bad form all around.
I wanted to like this book, especially in the beginning.The author makes racist remarks about black, Asian, Indian, Cuban, Jewish, Spanish and other people that get more frequent as the book goes on.
And they get more hate-filled, claiming people are less than human and have no right to have emotions.My copy is from the 1954.
I was really disappointed to read online that the newer edition retains all the racist crap.
It adds nothing to the “historical” aspect of the people de Kruif is writing about.
It makes his accuracy seriously questionable especially in the last chapter.
When there are weeks, months, and even years of diligent work with little if any revelations of progress, it is truly astounding that these researchers endured to make such great discoveries.
Personally, the continuous struggles while researching microbes as a grad student at times can make me want to leave the lab and never go back, but this book reiterates what I’ve been lectured - the struggle is part of the process, and sometimes the greatest discoveries are at first what seem like terrible mistakes.Getting to know the characters that set a foundation for future microbe hunters is an enjoyable and surprisingly humorous read.
Este libro te introduce a la historia de la microbiología desde sus inicios de una forma increíble que te mantiene completamente interesado en todo su seguimiento, me encantó especialmente los primeros capítulos de los inicios de como se fueron haciendo todos los descubrimientos y disfruté como si estuviera allí; los tipos de estudios que se realizaban son interesantes, muchos de los cuales actualmente serían poco éticos realizarlos pero gracias a eso se fue avanzando en la ciencia.
Me gustaría que hubiera seguimiento de la evolución de la microbiología en los años posteriores por que siguen muchos descubrimientos y me quedé con ganas de saber como siguieron las siguientes investigaciones.
This book belongs in every reader's education.
Passionate, tumbling, full of the excitement and human cost of science, Paul de Kruif brings the scientists of infectious disease to life, foibles as well as intellect.
More than that, I have re-read this volume countless times, including days when it was not in my plans, but I made the error of taking it off the shelf and being caught up in de Kruif's almost childlike enthusiasm and delight.
I first read this as a ten-year old, but my pleasure in it has hardly diminished in adulthood.
Paul de Kruif knows how to tell stories.
I have basically never written a review before.
But this book is so good I just had to write one.
It was given to me by a scientist and I didn't think much of it until I started reading it.
I read it in one go.
and although I enjoy reading non-fiction books they tend not to be books I can't put aside.
This book encouraged me even more to go into medical research.I recommend this book to anyone who has any remote interest in science and medicine
Written in older style story form, this gave an enlightening overview of the advances in the study of microbes over the centuries. Crazy small stuff that affects our ability to survive on earth. Crazy that no one even knew they existed for so long. Illustrates how science is always gaining in knowledge and that it's never done. (And there's not a point where we should halt further examination, making ad hominem attacks rather than reexamining conclusions.) God's creations are incredible!
This was a "car book," something I read out loud to my husband as we travel distances, especially on our weekly trips to SF. It is about the early scientists who discovered microbes and bacteria and, sometimes, the way to combat the power of those microbes. The science part was fascinating. The writing was different. The book was written in 1926 and had a dramatic, even florid style, that sometimes (unintentionally, I'm sure) made us laugh out loud.
Este libro describe a los personajes clave en el tema de los inicios de la microbiología, sus experimentos, observaciones y razones que los llevaron a realizarlo. Cada aportación fue muy valiosa y modificó la manera en que el mundo percibía la realidad, especialmente aquella habitada por seres pequeñísimos con los que cohabitamos.
It’s the journey of microbe hunting from antonie van leeuwenhoek’s little animacule to the Paul Ehrlich’s 606. These hunters planted seeds of microbiology so that humans will escape from horrible maladies .Louis Pasteur prophesied “all disease was getting ready to die”well today it is nearly true . I wish i had travel it before 2year of mbbs ! It has been astounding journey.
Очень интересная познавательная и на удивление захватывающая книга о развитии науки о микробах на протяжении веков в разных уголках мира. Читать очень понравилось, хотя все имена вроде как знакомы,а вот истории были в общем не очень известны.Советую для общего развития, даже если вы предпочитаете другие жанры литературы.
Es un libro bueno, simplemente no logré encajar con el. Es la segunda vez que lo leo, y creí que ahora sería mejor que la primera vez que no pude encajar totalmente. Ahora, tampoco pasó. Es muy triste, pero creo que sí te interesa el tema es muy buen libro.
Interesante introducción a la historia de la microbiología. Escrita en tono divulgativo que entretiene y mantiene enganchada en su lectura. Me ha faltado las imágenes de algunos investigadores y algunas explicaciones detalladas de cómo procedían a elaborar ciertos materiales y herramientas.
