https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20821284-brown-girl-dreaming
So beautifully good I am ashamed to write about it.
I am a Michigan white boy so moved by the brown girl writing of Ms. Woodson that I emailed her at one point in the book after a night of lost sleep due to a particularly beautiful and painful moment in the verse and and she wrote back to me!
I was put at ease, until I reached the next moment in the book the following night that stole my sleep!
Gorgeous writing.
Powerful images and so much heart that I am left breathless upon completion!
really enjoyed this! it was interesting seeing the things that jacqueline went through growing up and how she handled herself. i'm normally not a huge fan of novels being written in verse, but i felt it worked really well for this story. will talk more about this one in an upcoming video! youtube.com/jessethereader
4.5Ugh. so good.
I recently read Jacqueline Woodson's Another Brooklyn, and people here recommended that I read her middle grade kids book Brown Girl Dreaming.
Like Another Brooklyn, Brown Girl Dreaming is a poetic account of Woodson's upbringing in South Carolina and Brooklyn.
Even when the Irbys arrived in Brooklyn to stay, Jacqueline and her older siblings spent the summers in Greenville as their mother worked a full time job.
Brown Girl Dreaming won a National Book Award in 2014, and it is a book that I would easily allow my children to read.
Written in verse, her account portrays a life divided between the North and the South, learning about the civil rights movement, and discovering a burgeoning passion for writing stories.
I am born as the South explodes, too many people too many years enslaved, then emancipatedbut not free, the people who look like mekeep fightingand marchingand getting killedso that today - February 12, 1963and every day from this moment on, brown children like me can grow up free.
This is the way brown people have to fight, my grandfather says.
This gave Ms. Woodson the unique ability to describe her experiences, particularly those related to the civil rights movement, across a variety of social settings and geographic locales.As we were driving, I had to pause this story several times to answer questions and explain things to my daughters.
This initiated some important discussions and proved to be quite enlightening for all parties.It never ceases to amaze me how children can spot "right" and "wrong" so clearly, before external forces try to taint their inner goodness.
The writing is lovely , the way it is told - memories in free style poetry.
I think anyone of any age can appreciate this story of her family, the places she lived, the times in which she grew up, how her writing life developed and how she followed her dream .
Just before this I read a copy of Woodson's new book Another Brooklyn, to be published on 8/9/16 and I'll say the same thing here as I did in my review of it , she was born to write and I am grateful for profound experience it was for me to see her journey.
Later, she also grew up in the in-between North and South, New York.
brown girl dreaming, tu es une illumination.Jackie wanted to read and write and dream and play, and the people around her wanted change and equality and marches.
Yes, things have changed since the 19th century—slavery, for instance, was abolished—but not nearly enough.brown girl dreaming, tu es une merveille.
It’s important we don’t forget about the past, because we have to do everything in our means not to repeat it.brown girl dreaming, tu es vraie.
A story I will remember long after I've read it for the second, third, tenth, hundredth time.There is such joy and love in her verse, a profound appreciation for her family and for the places that make up her visions of home.
brown girl dreaming can serve as a touchstone for African-American literature and history, which is our shared history.As an adult, I read this with humility and wonder, enchanted by the voice of young Jacqueline Woodson as she discovers the importance of place, self, family, and words.
I’m not ashamed,if it feeds my children.”“Don’t any of you ever do daywork, she warns us.I’m doing it now so you don’t have to.”the reader“When we can’t find my sister, we knowshe is under the kitchen table, a book in her hand,a glass of milk and a small bowl of peanuts beside her.We know we can call Odella’s name out loud,slap the table hard with our hands,dance around it singing“She’ll Be Coming ’Round the Mountain”so many times the song makes us sickand the circling makes us dizzyand stillmy sister will do nothing morethan slowly turn the page.”south carolina at war“This is the way brown people have to fight,my grandfather says.You can’t just put your fist up.
A middle grade memoir in verseis nothing I typically read(or write, save this leap,which feels like the only way to share).But the bookish brown girl with butterfliesin a swirl of yellow-bluepromises a unique perspective.My instinct to devour,slip through the verse like prose,would be tangled here.But Woodson’s speed bump passagesremind me of her purpose andhave me reading memorized linesthrough closed eyes.Continue reading at rivercityreading.com
Brown Girl DreamingJacqueline Woodson  The author won the National Book Award in 2014 in the category of Young People's Literature for Brown Girl Dreaming We tend to believe that the way our memory process works is similar to a movie playing back in our heads in a sort of linear, chronological order, in reality though, at least in my experience, memories come in flashes and moments, not in long scenes like in a book or a documentary. According to some literary critics, the use of poems as a form
With its innovative and creative use of succinct, vivid poems and vignettes "Brown Girl Dreaming" is a unique memoir that explores the power of dreams and words and how writing can help you make sense of the world you live in and in the process find your life's purpose.On an interview with NPR, Woodson describes that the first time she discovered poetry and loved it was in elementary school when reading Langston Hughes.
Seeing these political events through the eyes of a child provides a wonderful and different perspective."Brown Girl Dreaming" starts on February 12, 1963 in Columbus, Ohio, the day Woodson was born in a "country caught between Black and White" as she describes it.The poem "A Girl name Jack" is about her parents arguing to choose her name is amusing:
Listening to this middle grade novel on audio read by the author was a gift. Poetic. Genuine. A young girl dreams of being a writer. Stories of her family, growing up between Ohio, South Carolina, and New York, her loving grandparents; this is Jacqueline Woodson's story, but it's a story for everyone.2017 Summer Read #22
“Even the silence has a story to tell you. Just listen. Listen.” Such a beautiful memoir written in free verse. The pages were dripping with imagery and metaphors that so perfectly captured a moment or a thought. It touched on so many important themes like, family, race and intersectional feminism.

I heard a lot about the story some time ago and added it to my list.
Now, with Woodson's new book out, I've been hearing more about her and both of these books.
When she was growing up, very young, splitting her time between the South and New York City.
But I was so drawn to this story and Woodson does a wonderful job with the audio.
I loved hearing the stories of her growing up, her siblings, her grandparents.
I've already ordered Woodson's latest book, but sadly, she does not narrate this one.Overall, I would highly suggest this one, and grab the audio.
I was really excited to finally receive my copy of Brown Girl Dreaming this month.
I as anticipating reading something by Jacqueline Woodson who I had herd so much about.
Brown Girl Dreaming is a poetic account of Woodson's family life while at the same time giving a very good idea about what life was like growing up in the South and in New York.
Beautifully written and telling a sensitive true story of how she felt about things.
It's a wonderful read for all ages.
It. Rings back good and bad memories but the closeness of family Is the universal theme that speaks to us all.
What an amazing way to tell her life's story, in wonderful prose. From Ohio, to South Carolina in the sixties, where things are changing but not quite quick enough, to New York. We learn the story of Woodson's family, their changing fortune and the wonderful relationship she had with her grandfather. Her calling to be a writer, and how she made up stories in preparation for the day she would be able to write her own. Her early induction as a Jehovah Witness and how this effected her young life. Simple, beautiful and profound.
This book was so beautiful. It's written in poetry from the author's point of view when she was a child, and it's one of the most interesting pov's I've ever read. Not to mention how much I appreciate her perspective as a child with fighting for equality and dreaming of being an author.
There is something so very real, honest, and about Jacqueline Woodson’s writing, regardless of what she’s writing about in “Brown Girl Dreaming.” Her prose contains heartrending stories, thoughts, musings, and emotions ranging from bliss to anger.
Letters becoming words, words gathering meaning, becoming thoughts outside my head becoming sentences written by Jacqueline Amanda Woodson.”This is the story of one girl finding her voice.
“The people who came before me worked so hard to make this world a better place for me.
I know my work is to make the world a better place for those coming after.
This is a DAMN good book. Press this into the hands of all middle grade readers, especially girls, especially girls of color, especially girls who don't think themselves to be great at school, especially girls who don't have an easy life at home. Woodson writes excellent verse here, and the way she talks about herself, her place in social/political history, and her place within her family are absorbing and moving.
To pick up brown girl dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson is to pick up the world’s best example of precisely how to write a fictionalized memoir.
Sharp when it needs to be sharp, funny when it needs to be funny, and a book that can relate to so many other works of children’s literature, Woodson takes her own life and lays it out in such a way that child readers will both relate to it and interpret it through the lens of history itself.
It’s a fictionalized memoir that nonetheless tells greater truths than most of our nonfiction works for kids.
Really lovely. Woodson looks back at her childhood in a collection of free form "poems," in a stream of consciousness format. This may sound odd, but it is actually very astute. Don't we all remember our childhoods in bits and pieces; a mash-up of scattered events, snatches of conversations, impressions, feelings, scents and sounds? Woodson grows up partly in the south at a time of great social change, which makes this memoir all the more compelling. A 4.5 for me.
The writing was amazing but the characters felt distant.
Still, I had heard only good things about Brown Girl Dreaming, so I decided to give it a try.
Whatever prevented me from connecting Another Brooklyn was clearly not present in Brown Girl Dreaming.
I highly recommend the audiobook, which is narrated by the author.— Kate Scottfrom The Best Books We Read In April 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/05/01/riot-r...
However, the one plus side to that has been the fact that so many more people have been exposed to Brown Girl Dreaming.
I don’t read a lot of middle grade books.
-Rincey AbrahamFrom Best Books of 2014: http://bookriot.com/2014/12/02/riot-r...
It feels weird to rate the true story of someone's life. This isn't a genre or a format that I'm used to or really enjoy, but it's a great story worth being told. There were many powerful moments about family, race, faith, and discovering her passion for writing. I'd definitely recommend this to anyone looking for a memoir told in verse.
But I had doubts when I started it; written in free verse, not necessarily my favorite type of reading, and it's aimed at a very narrow audience, middle grade girls.
Don't let any of that stop you, this book can (and should) be read by everyone.
This is a history lesson, told through the eyes of a young girl, what she experienced, what she thought, and how it shaped her life.Free verse was the perfect way to tell this story.
It's hard to find any fault with Brown Girl Dreaming, it's easily the best new book I've read in awhile.
They ultimately begin alternating between Brooklyn and South Carolina.Jacqueline Woodson is so eloquent in ascribing the haziness of memory and how feelings and emotions at the time become the more important element.
This, I believe, is how one should read Brown Girl Dreaming, There is so much to take away and enjoy from each chapter/poem.I loved this book for being a beautiful heartfelt collection of poetry, for moving me in ways I did not expect to be moved, for giving young girls hope and reason to dream, for beautifully describing family, and so much more.
What I Believeby Jacqueline WoodsonI believe in God and evolution.I believe in the Bible and the Qur'an.I believe in Christmas and the New World.I believe that there is good in each of us no matter who we are or what we believe in.I believe in the words of my grandfather.I believe in the city and the South the past and the present.I believe in Black people and White people coming together.I believe in nonviolence and "Power to the People."I believe in my little brother's pale skin and  my own dark brown.I believe in my sister's brilliance and the too-easy books I love to read.I believe in my mother on a bus and Black people refusing to ride.I believe in good friends and good food.I believe in johnny pumps and jump ropes,Malcolm and Martin, Buckeyes and Birmingham, writing and listening, bad words and good words -I believe in Brooklyn!I believe in one day and someday and this perfect moment called Now.
I didn't think of this book as poetry ....(not in any ordinary sense).As the author told her story about growing up --carefully constructing the verses -- it read with the same 'page-turning' engagement as a great novel to me.
Her absentee parents -race issues -poverty- sickness- death -incarceration - unplanned pregnancies -learning disabilities ...and my favorite: the authors love for writing.Even with her own struggles to learn as a child --the author knew she wanted to write!And...aren't we blessed that she did!
Even though this book *is* for all ages (I enjoyed it very much), I think it 'is' especially an important book for middle school children.
This could become a 'classic' read for school children.
I should start by saying that in the general sense, I'm not a fan of novels written in verse.
In this particular case, I think the format doesn't serve the story.
Re: the format - I don't know why this book says what it says in verse.
Re: the story - brown girl dreaming doesn't strike me as a story.
There's no conventional story format, no clear middle or end.
But that's not story.
I don't know that I'm expressing this very well, but I wanted brown girl dreaming to work for me.
