https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79016.First_Among_Equals

The question is which one of these ambitious men will become the Prime Minister?Although this book is about politics, Archer weaves through the book the personal stories of each of the men.
This worked effectively and by the end of the book I was surprised to feel a strong connection to each of the characters.
Archer's narrative hooks worked wonders, and although the story is told in third person omniscient, the change from character to character kept me on the edge of my seat.
No, did he really do that?" And that is the feeling I love to have at the end of a book.
It's another great book of Jeffrey Archer.
Recommended for those who love politics and all those who want to keep themselves occupied till the last page.
Further, it shows in detail about the life of people in political stream.
What are the pressures, highs, and lows in life that politician observes.
After this book, I have become a fan of Jeffrey Archer as he is one of the finest story makers and keeps on rotating the strike and keeps the balance.
Also, the author shows very smartly about different personalities, their plan of action that would shape their career.
I rather liked this slightly soapy tale of political life. Because Archer has been there and done it, the story has a certain authenticity, though I'm sure it has been greatly simplified. I thought the characters were well drawn, avoiding too much stereotyping. The only thing I didn't particularly like was the ending, and the convenient personality transplant of one of the main characters
NO LO PUEDO CREER!!!! invertir tanto para que no gane mi candidato :(No estoy de acuerdo con el final porque mi corazón estaba con Simon, pero la verdad que Raymond se lo merecía, como político, como persona me quedo con Simon (o Andrew). Muy buen libro, súper entretenido. Me reí, llore y me mantuvo al vilo siempre. Excelente.
The ending was a huge disappointment. I have nothing else to say about this book.
I'm sure a lot of the novel went over my head, and I have no idea how accurate the translation was, but I have to say what I remembered was mainly the scheming and how cool it made politics seem.
It's very apparent looking at historical figures: Archer predicted that Thatcher wouldn't make it to third term (she did) and that Elizabeth II (view spoiler)[would retire by 65 - at 90, she's still going!
(hide spoiler)]It would have been so much more interesting if the novel had more developed female characters, or female protagonists, and if the writing was more sophisticated (and if Archer's editor actually added the missing commas).
Having been sure I'd read all of JAs books, I was surprised to find this one at a vacation house we rented on the Mediterannean. Well, they say to write what you know and Archer knows the British Parliament. I never would have cared to learn all the ins and outs but Jeffey makes learning fun! ;)
Charles Seymour and Simon Kerslake ( both Conservative members), Raymond Gould and Andrew Fraser(both Labour Party members) Fiona, Joyce, Lousie, Elizabeth and Margret Thatcher (Prime Minister UK) and others..LOCATION..
Starting as the Back bencher of the House, From the year 1964 he gradually climbed the ladder whenever the Conservative Party formed the Government , as the Under Secretary of the Junior office (1966-74), Minister of State (during 1974-77), The Cabinet Member (during 1977-1989) and finally finishing long career as the Speaker of the Parliament in 1991.
Time has made me more aware of both the parliamentary process and the role that personalities plays in politics.
~~~This was one of the greatest insights into the British Parliamentary system that I have read.
Archer manages to weave the lives of four individuals together as they travel through politics with a skill that does not crassly portray simplistic good or bad characters, but fleshes them out as fully fledged characters.
Archer’s experience evidently aided in constructing this novel, and his respectful insights into the work of parliamentarians should be made compulsory understanding to those who mock and decry all who serve in parliament.
Archer has himself been a politician and this is the story of four ambitious men aiming to reach the pinnacle of power.Which one would succeed ? I did guess well before the end.It is an absorbing story and one of Archer's best books. (Four stars.)
This is a story about four very driven characters competing in the British political environment from 1964 - 1991, all aspiring to be Prime Minister one day:Charles Seymour (Viscount)- an Eton/Oxford graduate born to money and banking - obviously a Tory (Conservative) but also an aristocratic, arrogant snob.
Simon's a nice guy, who tries to do everything right (whom some say Archer based on himself - obviously while wearing rose coloured glasses).Raymond Gould - Labour Party intellectual from working class background, the son of a butcher, who went on to become the youngest Queen's Counsel in the country.
Archer, Jeffrey “First Among Equals” Linden Press/Simon & Schuster; 1984Being a fan of Mr. Archer I picked up this book at the annual Plano Book Sale along with some of his other books.
However, this book was not only dull reading but it was lengthy and the characters vacillated between good and evil with the exception of Simon Kerslake.
Both Charles Hampton and Raymond Gould round out the characters along their shenanigans.
If you are English you probably will understand this novel set around Parliament more than if you are an American.
If you are a Jeffrey Archer fan probably.
It is dull reading.
This novel makes a very interesting reading, and like many other Archer novels, it picks up action as you reach 200-odd pages.This is a tale of four aspiring gentlemen: Fraser, Gould, Kerslake and Seymour who enter the House of Commons in the 1960s, each aspiring to win the highest office - and to reach 10 Downing Street.
Archer, the master storyteller that he is, narrates in detail the lives of each men - the ups and downs each must face - and winds it up with the final battle.The suspense is gripping and the man who becomes the Prime Minister is revealed only in the very last paragraph of the novel.Overall a great story...
It took me almost four months to finish this book.
FOUR MONTHS!
Even then, I skipped a couple of chapters near the end to finally finish it.
Don't get me wrong.
This book is actually pretty good.
But politics?
Besides that, Archer's storytelling is top-notch, but the slow pace of this entire-career-of-four-different-men-documenting novel really grated on my nerves.
I was skipping lots of pages at times, more interested in the personal lives of the charaters than their careers, which, despite trying pretty hard, I failed to really understand.Bottom line: If you like political sagas, then this one's for you.
Pick this book only if you are interested in politics and if you did pickup, You will find it boring in the start but keep reading, you will love the characters. This one is quite different from the other archer's books that I have read. It gives inside information about how British parliament works.I liked all the four characters.It tells a lot about different personalities and how their decisions would shape their career.I find it hard to remember the characters in the start.It is lengthy but makes up with the interesting plot.
In this book, Archer gives the reader an insider's view of the parlimentary form of government. Four candiates each vying to become the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. Canavasing votes, a coin toss, scrambling for coalitions to get the the required absolute majority, a minority party getting to play the king maker ..... like I said earlier, it shows most of the ins and outs of the parlimentary form of government. A well written political drama.And a titbit, I read somewhere that different characters became the Prime Minister in different editions of the book.
Wonderful if you want to learn about, or like British parliament. I read the abridged version (they leave a character out for the Americans I guess)but I'm looking forward to reading this version with the 4th man in it!
I am sure many readers will find this very interesting. But personally I didn't like reading this. I didn't know anything about English Politics and didn't feel like doing much researching. One thing that annoyed me was the sudden change in POV. But its certainly good for those who like politics.
I have enjoyed most of Archer's books, finding them not only interesting but informative and entertaining. This is a clear exception. The book was tedious and boring with only momentary and fleeting episodes of interest or intrique. Overall, it was disappointing.
I had to read this for my European Politics course. It was a good novel, though nothing of substance. Though, it shows a lot about British parliament ins & outs.
Loved this one on the second read. Always good to revisit Archer
Fellow political enthusiasts awake! This is the book for you! I think it's the best I read in my life
classic Jeffry Archer, politics at its best. The character development was on point, looking forward to the next Archer book.
The first thing to be said about this book is the array of incredible characters - the ruthless and ambitious Charles Seymour, tenacious and gritty Simon Kerslake, lovable and heroic Andrew Fraser, brilliant Raymond Gould.
The four characters start off as newly elected MPs to the House of Commons, and one thing that seems to be in common among them is their desire to become the Prime Minister.
Additionally, for some people, it can take a while to "get into" the story - that's normal, and things do pick up eventually.This book could have gotten a greater rating, but for the ending.
It shows the rapidity of a human life, the importance of all of our decisions, the significance of trusting your inner thoughts, trusting your gut; it depicts humans' devotion to the chosen subjects, the ambition of the outstanding men, how we sometimes neglect the obviously important things in our lives, pursuing goals we are blinded by.
Most important message - it is not the book only for those who are into politics, as I have read in some reviews, but for everyone, who would like to be surprised, to observe how contradictory and astonishing the life can be.
Cuốn sách của Jeffrey Archer - Vượt lên hàng đầuNhững ngày đầu đọc sách, mình đã chọn cuốn Jeffrey Archer để đọc - lúc đó đọc Hai số phận của ổng, thấy hay, nên giờ thấy có cuốn nào của ổng thì sẽ mua ngay.Khác với các cuốn khác của ổng, cuốn này hơi làm mình thất vọng một tẹo, bởi đây là câu chuyện của 3 nghị sĩ trẻ trên con đường chạy đua vào chức Thủ tướng với sự góp mặt của những bà vợ và những cô nhân tình, nhưng cách viết không được lôi cuốn lắm, lại nói về 3 nhân vật (được xem là có tiền, quyền và danh vọng) nhưng không được thể hiện đầy đủ, đọc cứ cảm thấy không thiếu thiếu sao đấy.
I was able to read the first 100 pages and then realized there was no way I could continue on with this book.
After the 100 pages that I did read, I was so confused over who went to school where, who held which government position, who was Tory or who was Labour, which ones were married (and who did/did not love their wife), who was rich and who had issues with morals.
One of the prior reviews said you really have to love politics to enjoy this novel.
I obviously don’t love politics!
It’s funny.
I never saw myself reading books that didn’t have someone shooting a gun, being murdered, a mystery to solve, combat trained hard men in exotic places with even more exotic women or dragons, magic, elves and swords dueling over light and dark prophecies...
however...If there was ever an author to decliner a story about 4 men and the dreams to be prime minister I’d England and deliver that story in such a way that it thrills you, actually enraptures you to read more...
it’s Mr Archer!!
This book is about English political customs.
For anyone looking for some (though not really detailed) insight into how the British parliamentary system works, this book is worth picking up.
The pacing of the book is a quick cantor and the story line in snappy.
Archer gives into some cliches and leans a bit too much on certain stereotypes that may be expected in a Briths book (the aristocrat, the working class boy that makes good, etc.) however, he often uses those stereotypes skillfully and almost (almost) fully justifies their existence.
I can claim that is a book of hidden depth, but it was an enjoyable and entertaining read.
