https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130520.The_Mosquito_Coast
An overzealous father uproots his family in the middle of the night to leave America, with only their clothes on their back, to journey to the deep jungles of Honduras.
Although a brilliant inventor, he is both paranoid and manic and the journey that transpires is both disastrous and dangerous, putting his family at risk.
The story is taken from the perspective of his eldest son, Charlie, who throughout attempts reconcile the man whom he loves with the mad man whom he has become.
What started out as a slow burn became a raging inferno of a story.
Kept out of school with his younger siblings Jerry and twins April & Clover, Charlie spends his time with Father, Allie Fox, an inventor ("Nine patents," he liked to say, "Six pending.") who dropped out of Harvard to get what he considered a real education.
Father gives his working model to the migrant workers who live on the farm and who the inventor refers to with both admiration and derision as "the savages." What Allie Fox most likes to do other than take things apart is rant: free trade, education, pollution, crime, energy, nutrition, entertainment (the Foxes do not own a TV), etc.
It’s a hard book to categorise, this one: coming-of-age yarn, adventure story, literary fiction?
He’d already demonstrated that (to his own satisfaction at least) he knew more than anyone else about just about everything, so this was his opportunity to identify a new audience and some virgin territory in which to build his ideal world.In truth, the first section of the book – pre the moonlight flit – was high octane stuff.
Once the family – Allie, his wife and four children - had reached deepest jungle territory the tempo dropped and, for me, the book went into a temporary lull.
I could plow through it for the sake of my book club, but why put myself through 3 or 4 hours of angst and misery, reading about a wildly dysfunctional family trying to create their own utopia in the jungles of the Honduras?In an intellectual way I appreciate that the father, Allie Fox, is an amazing character, but he's just painful for me to read about.
He pursues one scheme after another, with his family deep in poverty.
He's brilliant, loud-mouthed, rude, abusive to his family, mentally unbalanced, a know-it-all, and doesn't listen to anyone.
Peki değilse, neden kimse sesini çıkarmıyordu?"Bu kitap " Osurukçu" Allie Fox, Harvard ve medeniyet kaçkını mucidimizin eşi ve dört çocuğu ile birlikte Amerika ve temsil ettiği her şeyden kaçışın hikayesi.
Ciklet ve vaizlerin yozlaştırdığı, kaosa teşne apokaliptik dünyada ayakta kalan son insan Allie Fox’dur ve ailesini kurtarmak için, ailesine danışmadan Honduras’ın din, eğitim, medeniyet girmemiş ormanlarına doğru yolculuğa çıkılır.
Kurcala ve bir faydasını bul" felsefesi ile cangılı ailesi, Zambular, oraya sığınmışlar için kendi medeniyetini kurma adına adeta çalışma kampına çevirir.
Yalnız şöyle bir durum var; bu eserde doğaya düşme değil, modernitenin yıkıcı şehrinden, şerrinden kaçıp doğaya dönme vardır; yola böyle çıkılır.
I do research in spoken language technology, building software that people can talk to.
Right now, our main project is an app that lets beginning language students practice their speaking skills; if you're interested, you can find out more here.
I read this book about 25 years ago, when I was starting out in this field, and it's a frightening parable for anyone who works with new technology.
He will build an enormous refrigerator and make large quantities of ice.
They locate a good spot to pitch camp, they build their house and their monster refrigerator, but no one comes asking for ice.
Fox decides he has to go to the clients.
So, he picks up his family and leaves America for Honduras.
He is off to the tropics to show it is possible to live in another way.Allie is an inventor; he is great at making mechanical gadgets.
He is performing, not simply reading the text, and I must admit this does fit the kind of book that it is.
It says that it reinforces the unpleasant reading experience, but it seems unfair to me to blame a narrator for how a book is written.
*The Mosquito Coast 1 star*The Lower RiverTBRI will try one more book of fiction by the author.
And so Allie does.Allie Fox, handyman and gifted inventor, disappointed with America, disgusted with consumer, corporate or whatsoever lifestyle, out of the blue packs his family and set off to Honduran jungle.But let’s not be mislead by this idyllic picture.
Nature, its beauty and toughness at the same time clashes with the man who broke with life in the civilization jungle and went into the real one to make a new civilization.The sense of threat and growing madness, stifling atmosphere, jungle with its luxuriance, dizzying heat.
I was pissed off at all the sufferings Allie brought on his family.
Paul Theroux understands fathers and sons like few authors I have read, but I still struggle with Allie Fox's descent into madness.
Of course, that in itself tells me that The Mosquito Coast is definitely worth the time I spend immersed in its world, but I can't help wanting to apportion blame to myself or Theroux or both of us with a degree of certainty.The more I read Theroux's work, however, the more I think that he and I are simply incompatible.
I want to love him, but I can't, and I think it is about time we break up.
He responded, "The place doesn't matter, because wherever you go, there you'll be." He was hinting at the annoying truth that my character, not places or circumstances, was hindering my spiritual journey.
In The Mosquito Coast, Allie Fox leaves home for a barely-mapped corner of Honduras.
Thus, wherever they go, there they be.Harrison Ford and River Phoenix did a film version, but the novel is better.
He makes the character relatable, despite the demonic scourge Allie Fox is to his family.Watching the sought-after Garden of Eden descend into the jungle from hell is rather shocking.
Travel demands character but also instills it in those who are willing to learn.
And all around us in the wet and dark was this dark edge of monkeys." and thoughts and feelings (of Charlie, the first-person narrator): "Once, I had believed that Father was so much taller than me, he saw things I missed.
And that’s what I’m fit for, hands and knees!" With such an extremist, furious madman of a father, it’s no wonder Charlie, the narrator, and his family, fear him as the followers of some ancient religion would fear their god after going through some terrible natural catastrophe or war: "There were moments when we half-expected him to show up, although we knew he was dead-- expected him to appear somewhere astern and fling himself aboard and howl at us...
THE MOSQUITO COAST is a marvelous novel by Paul Theroux. Brilliant writing and great characters. Highly recommended.
This story evolves around a man who is so fed up with what he perceives as deteriorating quality of life in the United States that he takes his family (wife and four children) to the most isolated place he knows of, the Mosquito Coast on the east coast of Honduras.
Things get tense toward the end of the book.The book provides an entertaining way to learn about the geography of the up-river areas of the Mosquito Coast of Honduras.The following is a review from PageADay Book Lover's Calendar for October 19, 2017:________________A paranoid inventor and dark genius, Allie Fox decides to leave civilization behind and move his family to the jungle of Honduras to live in a shack.
Kitap harika ama yazarın anlatmak istediği neydi tam anlamıyla bunu anlamış değilim.Burda ki kaçık, ben merkezci ,kendine hayran adam yaşadığı ülkenin kalpazanlıkları, yalanları iki yüzlülüğüne toplumsal çürümüşlüğüne karşı koyarak ailesini az gelişmiş henüz ülkesindeki yozlaşmışlığın dışında kalmış fakir geri ama doğal bir ülke olan Honduras'a götürürken bahanesi kötülükten kaçmak ama kendisi ile getirdiği kötülüğün gerçekten farkında değil midir; yoksa hiç bilmedikleri bir ülkede ailesinin tamamiyle ona bağlı olabileceği düşüncesi midir kendi ülkesinden bu kadar uzaklaşması.
Doğal yaşamı sonuna kadar destekleyen biri olarak adamın yani babanın haklı olduğu yanlarını desteklerken uygulamadaki faşist tarafına kesinlikle karşıyım.Harika bir eser kesinlikle.mutlaka okunmalı hatta okullarda bu kitap üzerine tartışılmalıdır da bence.Çocukların çaresizliği ve gerçekten de çok sevdikleri babalarını öldürmek istemelerini anlamak hiç zor değil.Tanrıyı oynamak sanırım böyle bir şey.
Paul Theroux never shies away from the the sick and twisted.'Bout halfway through after last night as Allie and his ragged band of followers(his family) are embarked on their/his big adventure in the Honduran jungle.
"no windows" - always with the misprints!Up until last night the book has been about Allie's triumphs in imposing his will, creativity and energy in and on the bush of the Honduran Mosquito Coast.
Even though my own father story was pretty dreadful, and even though I was SO angry and fed up with Allie a number of times and wanted him to STFU!, I felt some sympathy for him at the end - a tortured soul.
He is sort of Don Quixote's evil twin.
Both Don Quixote and Allie Fox pursued noble dreams but Quizote didn't imperil his entire family in doing so.
But it isn't just the character of Allie Fox that makes The Mosquito Coast such a riveting and brilliant novel.
It is the interaction with his his family as they struggle to understand this brilliant but insane man.
The book reads like an adventure; an adventure that you know will go wrong.
This is one of those books that stays with you and deserves to be called a Twentieth Century classic.
It features an amazingly weak female character, a man who abuses his own children to the point where his two sons openly fantasize about killing him (and for good reason!) even as they are overwhelmed by his personal charisma and energy.Truthfully, I didn't like the book.
On the boat Alli manages to offend nearly everybody -- he is such an arrogant butt-head, full of self-righteous zeal -- and takes a perverse joy in forcing Charlie to perform dangerous, life-risking pointless tasks.
I got half way through and this was the last section I read: "Then the darkness, which was like fathoms of ink, softened, became finely gray, and, without revealing anything more of the sea, turned to powder.
I could never figure out the father character - if he was a jokester or was I supposed to think he was a villain?
Maybe I just didn't like the premise.
I've always disliked that whole America's-a-capitalist-shithole-place-to-live story line for a book or movie.
So maybe I can get through the rest of the story quickly with the 1 1/2 hour movie.
Google Maps just won't help you finding your way here in this jungle world of divine retribution against the man who dares to change nature and ultimately pays for his blasphemy.
It's a three-part chronicle of the gradual descent into murder and madness by a man of great intelligence, individuality, photographic memory and deeply analytical genius.
That descent would be even more rapid were he not surrounded by a Greek chorus of four stoic, hardworking children and a wife, unnamed, who is the most patient and astoundingly loyal woman in the world.
The ending is a Greek tragedy in itself.
Although I agree with some of the views of the protagonist's father, I find the character so obnoxious that I don't even know if I can read any more.
Човек срещу природата – но и срещу себе си: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/b...Досега с Пол Теру се бяхме срещали само в “Улица “Полумесец”, но тя не ми помогна с нищичко за книгата, която ме очакваше.
Но за разлика от много други, в тази Теру показва не само какви чудеса може да съгради този дух при пълно отдаване на някоя идея, но и как може да затъне в плашещо безумие, от което излизане няма.
Вярата е да приемаш за вярно нещо, което знаеш, че не е истина.Издателство "Изток-Запад"http://knigolandia.info/book-review/b...
Funny, funny book.Well, that was my review the first time I read it. Now, after a reread some 20 years later, I wonder why I didn't pick up on what was really going on with the father. This time it was clear to me, and gave the book, despite its comedic moments, a sense of ever-increasing dread.
Read this book years ago! (Before being a member of Goodreads) Fabulous!A friend sent it to be 'to read'! I AGREE!
(Don’t leave her, Rhett!) First published in 1982, MOSQUITO COAST is on the highest rung of books to which I return (even buying a second copy when the first hid and I couldn’t find it quickly enough to satisfy my urge.) Upon finishing it for the second, third, fourth time, I’ll begin anticipating the day I’ve forgotten enough plot details to sink into it once again.
MOSQUITO COAST created by Paul Theroux satisfies every bit of my readerly soul with young Charlie, a watchful narrator who captures one’s heart with his push-pull toward his larger-than-life father, Allie, a villain who terrifies by his good intentions gone wild.
—make THE MOSQUITO COAST the most thrilling and unusual of coming-of-age stories.I count the days until I’ve forgotten it, and can read it once more.
not the best of Theroux. let him stick to travel
I didn't enjoy this as much as I was hoping to.
But the central father character was captivating and the descriptions of the landscape - the jungle, creatures, and the weather - were wonderful.
I enjoyed being carried along on this crazy journey.
what frustrated me was the lack of depth when it came to nearly all the other characters.
The narrator and his brother were okay, but I just couldn't believe that 'Mother' would go along with it so easily.
In fact when I think about it, it was all the female characters that didn't seem real.
"The Mosquito Coast" is a fictional story of an American father Allie Fox, who is an inventor and completely disillusioned with the American lifestyle of consumerism and materialism ( "We eat when we're not hungry, drink when we're not thirsty, buy what we don't need, and throw away everything that's useful. Don't sell a man what he wants - sell him what he doesn't want. Pretend he's got eight feet and two stomachs and money to burn. That's not illogical - it's evil." ). Upon quitting his job an
"The Mosquito Coast" is a fictional story of an American father Allie Fox, who is an inventor and completely disillusioned with the American lifestyle of consumerism and materialism (
At times it felt almost "outworldly," because the family is completely out of touch with civilization, the author doesn't even provide a proper introduction of contemporary Honduras (we only vaguely hear about the evil communists and bad people crossing over from the Nicaraguan side) and the various characters are described solely through their speech and actions rather than their physical appearance.
Which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it was definitely different from previous stories I read.Allie Fox is a character to remember.
The story is narrated by Charlie, who at 14 is his oldest child, and begins with the family living on an asparagus farm in New England where Allie works as a handyman and supervisor to the migrant farm workers from Honduras.
After a dispute with the farm owner over what he sees as the owner's unfair profit-seeking, Allie packs up his family and moves them to the Honduran jungle to create a new society, one led by paranoid, hypocritical, abusive Allie and his God complex.
In short, Allie is barking mad, and the longer he stays in the jungle, the worse he gets.
And despite expecting a bad end to Allie's brave new world, I was still pretty horrified.
As a strong patriarch, Father has a larger than life presence over everyone; his family most notably.
Charlie doesn't long for "home" like his younger brother Jerry, but he does wish for more comforts; living on a deserted, empoverished Central American coast after being a sharecropper in the U.S.A. is certainly quite a change.The Mosquito Coast could be a real place; not a sandy beach with cocktails, but somewhere much more sinister, where nature is sublime, taking over and ruling supremely.
As much as I loathe Father, I wonder how much of himself the author drew from for the character?
This was an incredibly engaging book and would be a good read for both those looking to think and those looking to be entertained.
I always tell my wife that I want to sell everything and move to Australia, raise sheep, and live the simple life.
In America we love to romanticize the simple rustic life as a way to get away from the corrosive influences of society, but this book argues that there is no running away from the things that destroy civilizations.
Regardless of what you may think, the simple life is not all that simple.
