https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7629.The_Good_Soldier_vejk
Thrown in jail at police headquarters with a bunch of other anti-government conspirators, labeled as such for things like not reading the newspaper about the recent events in Sarajevo, one shocked man cries out, "I'm innocent!" to which Švejk replies, "Jesus Christ was innocent too and all the same they crucified him.
When Švejk hears of this most tragic event, he says: "It gives me a headache to think how they are going to put all his pieces together when the day of the last judgement comes."As Cecil Parrott states in his Introduction and a number of other literary critics have noted, a more complete appreciation of Jaroslav Hašek’s novel forces us to fathom Švejk’s character which is complex and multifaceted and knotty .
The Czech antidote to Heller’s Catch-22 (a wonderful but overpraised anti-war satire), this anarchistic (and openly misogynistic) classic is bolder, bawdier, barmier and another B-bouncing word than Heller’s similar book thing.
The remarkable thing about this not-always-hilarious, but relentlessly entertaining book is that Hašek was an educated hobo who spent his time bumming the railroads, pulling this masterpiece out his pants while living a true on-the-edge anarchist life.
The comedy here spins out into shows like Bilko, Dad’s Army, MASH (asterisks omitted) and so on—with nice and nasty satirical strafings and knifings for fans of that kind of thing.

It was written in instalments and I have never heard tell that there was an overall plan for the book.Much of what happens and even bizarre stories like the editor who invented new animals to write about for a regular animal magazine are drawn from Hašek's own experiences.It was written after the war and after the author's experience as a Bolshevik Commissar, and so is looking back on the vanished world of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
When he finally gets there, even more ridiculous situations keep happening to him thanks to the military life which defies common sense most of the time.This is a satirical book which manages to be a humor book as well.
Once you stop and think about what happens in the book, it turns out he actually always prevails over the huge and baroque bureaucratic machine of the military and civil life in pre-war Central Europe.
Humbly report, Sir, but I've been reading this book called  The Good Soldier Švejk which I had not planned to read as part of my World War I project, but there you have it.
The local gendarme walked up to the car, identifying himself and explaining why he was compelled to stop me, only to be interrupted by the et ux, who leaned over to say, 'I told him to slow down!' My hands on the wheel, I waited for her to continue with 'but he never listens when he's drinking' but the hand of God must have stopped her.''You're a smart-aleck,' said the white pick-up truck.'Humbly report, that view has its supporters, but then there's those that vote for feeble-minded.
Read this book ages ago thanks to my Dad to whom I am eternally grateful. Probably one of the best novels of the 20th century on war.
В романа на Хашек обаче простият войник не ще да играе безропотно ролята си на пушечно месо, вади белязано тесте от ръкава и на всичкото отгоре започва да блъфира.
Защото живота ако не го измамиш, той лично се погрижва да те изпрати в авангарда.Ярослав Хашек използва събирателни и хиперболизирани образи.
Ярослав Хашек завещава на чешкия език нарицателното „швейковщина“, което ще рече най-общо ентусиазъм, обрамчен с весела имбецилност.
Прочетете за Швейк и се посмейте на брътвежите му и на кашите, които забърква.
Аз само за едно нещо съжалих накрая – че така и не успях да опозная подпоручик Дуб откъм опакото…
692. Osudy dobrého vojáka Švejka za světové války = The Good Soldier Švejk, Jaroslav HašekThe Good Soldier Švejk (also spelled Schweik, Shveyk or Schwejk) is the abbreviated title of an unfinished satirical dark comedy novel by Jaroslav Hašek. The original Czech title of the work is Osudy dobrého vojáka Švejka za světové války, literally The Fateful Adventures of the Good Soldier Švejk During the World War.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: یازدهم ماه آوریل سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: شوایک سرباز پاکدل؛ نویسنده: یار
The original Czech title of the work is Osudy dobrého vojáka Švejka za světové války, literally The Fateful Adventures of the Good Soldier Švejk During the World War.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: یازدهم ماه آوریل سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: شوایک سرباز پاکدل؛ نویسنده: یاروسلاو هاشک؛ مترجم: ایرج پزشک‌زاد؛ تهران، کتاب زمان؛ چاپ دوم تابستان 1383؛زمان را کمی به عقب برمی‌گردانیم؛ سرباز«شوایک» دارد از دست‌شویی بیرون می‌آید.
و این به گمانم به خودی خود بسیار زیباستشوایک سرباز پاکدل / یاروسلاو هاشک / ایرج پزشک‌زاد / کتاب زمان / چاپ دوم / تابستان 1383؛شوایک سرباز پاکدل / یاروسلاو هاشک / دی و بهمن 1385؛رمان شوایک سه بار و به سه شکل متفاوت به فارسی ترجمه و منتشر شده.
Una sátira de esas que no se olvidan.
Hašek ilustra muy bien a Švejk, cómo se hace soldado, cómo "lucha" por el imperio austro-húngaro y todas las anécdotas que le suceden a éste.
Cuando estaba en Praga, vi un restaurante llamado Švejk y me recordó inmediatamente al libro.
Situaciones absurdas, por una guerra absurda (como todas las guerras) con anécdotas absurdas, pero que siempre condujeron a un mismo lugar: la armada.Lo que creo que más gracia me causó fue que entre más soldado se sentía, más absurdo era todo...
Leer sobre tópicos serios y tristes en manera de sátira es simplemente genial.Švejk siempre vivirá en mi corazón.
Click here to view some examples.Jaroslav Hašek died having completed four of the six proposed books, which - had he lived to finish it - would have made this tome even heftier, and therein lies my only criticism, due to its episodic structure The Good Soldier Švejk can occasionally be too rambling and repetitive however, read on a few pages, and there's another amusing scene to enjoy.This is an account of World War One far removed from heroism and honour, and which focuses more on idiotic, patriotic officers, drunk priests, skiving, conniving, brutality, boozing, death and the harsh reality of a moribund, unpopular Empire for those trying to survive at the bottom of the heap.
I was thinking that if this story could be translated into an operetta, or even a cabaret, it would become a medley of innocence, honesty, madness, brutality and a world happily going mad, while we, the audience, laugh ourselves to death, merrily tapping our feet to the rhythm of the orchestra.I had the same feeling and reaction when I read Captain Corelli's Mandolin by Louis de Berniers.
If historical fiction is your religion, and the genre's authors your sect, this unique book, 1st published in 1921, is a must-read.
It was a difficult read due to the brutality and cruelty portrayed in The Good Soldier Svjek.
The first time I read this book, as a teenager, I could not see the point.
Now I see it as one of the great books.
Svejk, however, is not moderately stupid.
He is very very stupid.
Indeed, he is so very stupid that he somehow manages to keep himself out of trouble and out of danger.
Gradually, we wonder whether Svejk might actually be quite a clever man, who knows how to handle himself in the face of arbitrary power, bureaucracy and bone-headed idiocy.
Finally, because the war's stupidity is actually quite a serious matter, we make another discovery.
I've been on a roll with my reading recently. Love having time off.Anyways - it is often said that this novel was an inspiration for Catch-22. Like Catch-22, it is hilarious. Unfortunately, it tends to go on for a little too long, also like Catch-22.The moralizing in the end does tend to break up the monotony. The book ends abruptly, but this is due to the author's unfortunate death. This also explains some 'unpolished' sections of the book.Despite these flaws, it is still hilarious and very much worth your time if you want a good rollicking anti-war novel.
شوایک، مرد ساده دل و پرحرفی است که به علت احمق بودن از سربازی معاف شده اما با شروع جنگ جهانی اول تصمیم میگیرد برود و در جبهه بجنگد. هاشک این کتاب را ابتدا به صورت جزوههای جدایی منتشر میکرد و میفروخت. در بخشهایی از کتاب خود نویسنده نیز وارد میشود و توضیحاتی در مورد کتاب و برخی از اتفاقهای واقعی جنگ میدهد. شوایک یکی از مهمترین و معروفترین کتابهای طنز قرن بیستم است. هاشک قبل از کامل کردن کتابش میمیرد.متاسفانه نتوانستم تمامش کنم و از اواسط کتاب ولش کردم. با اینکه خواندنش را برای خودم واجب کرده بودم
شوایک، مرد ساده دل و پرحرفی است که به علت احمق بودن از سربازی معاف شده اما با شروع جنگ جهانی اول تصمیم می‌گیرد برود و در جبهه بجنگد.
به نظرم قسمتی از طنز کتاب هم به دلیل ترجمه و آشنا نبودن به جزییات فرهنگ چکِ صد سال پیش از بین رفته بود.
با این حال نگاهِ ضد جنگ هاشک و دست‌انداختن قدرت‌های نظامی و مذهبی‌ را دوست داشتم.پ.ن: قسمت اول شوایک را «ایرج پزشکزاد» نیز ترجمه کرده.
برتولت برشت نیز با اقتباس از این کتاب نمایشنامه‌ای دارد به نام «شوایک در جنگ جهانی دوم»
As the war was ongoing then, its back cover advertises "Penguin Specials" with titles like: "Modern Battle," "American vs.
Germans," "How Russia Prepared," "How the Jap Army Fights," "New Soldier's Handbook," "Aircraft Recognition," "New Ways of War," etc.
In short, the book tells:"Why regular soldiers, state and home guardsmen should learn guerrilla tactics."Why guerrilla warfare can be of immense value to the United Nations (as it is right now in Russia and Yugoslavia) and why it cannot be used by the Axis...."Nowadays, Penguin pocketbooks like this carry reproductions of paintings on their front covers.
از جنگ زیاد خواندهایم، دیدهایم و شنیدهایم.
هم با جنگی که درایران رخ داده آشنا هستیم (البته به دلیل خط قرمزهایی که وجود دارد نه با همهی جنبههایش) و هم با جنگهایی که در دنیا درگرفتهاند.
در این میان میتوان گفت که دو جنگ جهانی قرن بیستم از همه بیشتر شناخته شدهاند.
شوایک را نیز از یک منظر میتوان روایتی از جنگ جهانی اول دانست.
یاروسلاو هاشک که خود از نزدیک در این جنگ حضور داشته، با طنزی تلخ که هیچکس از زیر تیغ تیزش نمیتواند فرار کند به نقد از جنگ در درجهی اول، و اجتماع در دیدی وسیعتر دست میزند.هر نویس
یاروسلاو هاشک که خود از نزدیک در این جنگ حضور داشته، با طنزی تلخ که هیچ‌کس از زیر تیغ تیزش نمی‌تواند فرار کند به نقد از جنگ در درجه‌ی اول، و اجتماع در دیدی وسیع‌تر دست می‌زند.هر نویسنده‌ای ترفندی دارد و می‌توانم بگویم که یاروسلاو هاشک از یکی از بهترین روش‌ها استفاده کرده است: سربازی ساده –و گاهی وقت‌ها (اما نه همیشه) خل– که از ماجرایی به ماجرایی دیگر برده می‌شود.
شوایک سرباز غیور ساده‌ای است که آن قدر داستان و حکایت بلد است که فکر می‌کنی بیش از همه‌ شخصیت‌های کتاب عمر کرده و پیری به نظر می‌رسد بی‌آنکه خود از خردی که دارد باخبر باشد و این جهل او نیز در خدمت روایت و خنداندن ما به خوبی استفاده می‌شود.
A vastly amusing, compulsive read, Hašek's masterpiece is, moreover, a brutal satire of humanity's foulest self-inflicted plagues - war, organized religion and a savagely oppressive State - that retains too this day its power to shock and disturb. As for Josef Švejk, perhaps no other Everyman or antihero was ever so endearing. An unforgettable book and one of the few classics (Rabelais also comes to mind) that can be consumed with such greedy, giddy delight.
Su mayor problema es que se lo toma todo al pie de la letra, es incapaz de entender un doble sentido o un sarcasmo, y cree ciegamente que la institución del ejército es infalible.Švejk empieza sus peripecias cuando se presenta voluntario para luchar en la primera guerra mundial, pero a raíz de un malentendido las cosas se complican hasta el absurdo y el buen soldado acaba siendo acusado de desertor.

I wanted to read this because I knew that Svejk was the forbear of one of the ur-texts of sad-eyed high school existentialists, namely, Catch-22.
Joseph Heller said he could never have written his surreal epic without having read this WWI picaresque by Hasek.
Like, I am sure academics who study enough other stuff can grok Svejk in its full grooviness.
But I for one, am glad that Heller transmitted whatever he saw in Svejk to me in a way that could blow my teenage mind forever in his own book.
The original illustrations scattered throughout the narrative are copious and delightful.Hasek skillfully uses dialogue to convey the individual personalities of his characters, Svejk in particular speaking with a simplicity that perfectly reflects the ambiguity with which the reader must contend: Is this a supreme simpleton or a supreme con-man?
And the crux of the novel, the “hook” that defines the narrative and the nature of Svejk himself is whether he is an innocent or an ironist, the play between these possibilities being the vehicle that Hasek uses for social critique.
هكذا نتعرف على سيفيك , إنه جندي تشيكي في جيش الإمبراطورية النمساوية المجرية , جندي من ملايين الجنود الذين قتلوا بعضهم بعضا فيما يسميه المؤرخون بالحرب العالمية الأولى ..
هازيك نفسه شارك في تلك الحرببدأت الحرب بمقتل الأرشيدوق فرديناند , ولي عهد الإمبراطورية النمساوية المجرية , في ساراييفو ..
"إذن فقد قتلوا "فرديناندنا" , عندما سمع سيفيك أخبار موت فرديناند من خادمته يجيب "أي فرديناند سيدة مولر ؟" , "أعرف شخصين اسمهما فرديناند , الأول مراسل عند بروسا , الصيدلاني , شرب ذات مرة بالخطأ زجاجة زيت للشعر ...
My initial reaction to this book after reading the first few chapters is that it reminded me of Catch-22.
If you appreciate the biting satire, base humor, and no-holds-barred castigation of bureaucratic organizations in Catch-22, you love it in Svejk as well.
Sveyk, the (seemingly) good-natured and dopey Dudley-Do-Right of the Czech contingent in the Austria-Hungarian army during WWI is a well known "hero" in his home country.
Sveyk, unable to assert any form of control on the political chaos around him, engages in a more passive-aggressive tactic.
All of this shows us the political quagmire of WWI eastern Europe and shocks us because really, has anything changed?
It would have been nice to know that the book is unfinished, however although you'd like more closure the story still stands up well as it is.
Svejk has developed the perfect defense to survive in these dangerous conditions, constantly agreeing with everything the army does, coupled with a garrulous nature that usually drives his superiors nuts and makes them forget what they planning on doing to him.His constant stream of little stories, are both a highlight and a problem of the book.
As i said its unfinished and more of a denouement would have been nice but overall very good and i won't be forgetting Svejk any time soon.
Hasek didn't finish it, and that's probably a good thing.
It's also good because the point of the book as it stands seems to be that Svejk avoids ever actually, you know, fighting in the war, and if the book had ended, he would have had to i) fight, which would have ruined the effect, or ii) not fight, which would have led to still more endless jokes.
This review is getting as drawn out as the book, so: read this over a long period, long enough that you can respond to the repeated jokes the way people used to respond to repeated jokes in TV sitcoms.
It took me more than two years to finish this book.
Had managed to get until half-way upon buying it, but couldn't get myself to continue.
And so, after two years of hesitation I decided to give its second half another chance and liked it.
This novel has brilliant satiric comedy, crazy pictures and the highest amount of anecdotes I've ever come across.
But still, I would've like to give Svejk five stars, were it not for its crazy length of 750 pages.
If you want to do "the Czech book" don't do Kundera but choose Hasek instead.
If you followed TV News too much and just need something anti-militaristic and hilarious at the same time - you've found the right book! Worthlessness and cruelty of a regime (literally - Austro-Hungarian one) towards its own people, fraud, corruption and queen of them all - the WAR. Year 1914. Josef Svejk, a dog seller, drafted into army to fight on a meaningless war, somehow knows a way around those things - he feigns idiocy. And it works! Especially when we get to see who is real idiots there - bureaucrats and army ranks.
3.5*This WW1 classic Czech novel reminded me of Catch-22 or M.A.S.H. -- black humor about the way armies work. I much prefered this older translation to that of Sadlon's new one I started off with in Book 1 and also enjoyed Lada's illustrations this book had.
It's not that it was bad, it was that it was so overly long and repetitive that the mild humour became overshadowed by the 'oh here we go again' as the anti hero launched into one of his innumerable tales about dog only knows what until my eyes glazed over, my brain melted out my ears and I thought of about 10 other books that I could be reading right now instead of this.
The author was an anarchist and the book was a seemingly incoherent mess which actually concealed a definite underlying structure.
