https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54995.Glory
The Russian title was Podvig, which means roughly “gallant feat or high deed.” It’s “…a story of a rarity – a person whose ‘dreams come true.’ ” But who needs “...relief from the itch of being!”In this quasi-autobiographical novel, a young man’s family circumstances are such that he’s been a world traveler since he was born.
He eventually falls in love with a young woman who consistently refuses his hand in marriage but never quite turns him away.Yet he’s a golden boy.
Nicely observed novel centred on Russian emigres in Europe between the wars.
Unusually for Nabokov much of the action takes place in England.Not as harsh in tone as earlier novels like Invitation to a Beheading or Laughter in the Dark, the tone is more similar to later works.
Nabokov's prose is brilliant even here, so early in his bibliography.
But he commits the rookie mistake of assuming that a personal experience that has been so significant in his life (his own exile from Russia) is interesting per se to readers.
Glory offers very little apart from this experience, and this, along with the writing, is note really enough to carry the novel.
The plot wafts from trifle to trifle, but never really latches onto anything of importance.
The ancillary characters are often quirky and charismatic, but add little to the narrative.
Glory, though at times pleasant, ultimately misses the mark.
Early Nabokov, brimming with bountiful lyrical light-fantastic tripping across Russia, Germany, and England, as the hero bumbles into his Cambridge education and chases an indifferent Teutonic vamp for too long. One of the more nostalgic, sincere novels from a pen that became sourer, more acerbic, and esoteric with time.
The fact of the matter is that while McCarthy does accomplish tremendous things in cataloging flora, it’s just that: cold, emotionless minutiae (I speak of the Southwestern novels; the Tennessean are the lovely exception in almost every way).
The story is fine, great even at points, but the real treasure here is to take in the natural world as seen through the eyes of—and here is the inevitable phrase that is written on the back or inner flap of every book ever written by the man—‘the greatest prose stylist of the 20th century.’ What the f____ is a ‘prose stylist’ anyway?
Young Nabokov is figuring out how to structure a novel from an entire life - rather than a heightened episode - without shorting his substantial gifts for compression, velocity, and patterning.
The initial chapters have a herky-jerk momentum, but the novel eventually finds its footing and races toward an astonishing metaphysical climax that frames all the previous material in a new light.
But I still found it far more electrifying than the work of acolyte Martin Amis, whose London Fields continues to be a relative slog compared to Nabokov's fleet-footed prose, indelible dilations of detail, and swift changes of scenery.
I know that the sole purpose of this book "lay in stressing the thrill and the glamour that [a] young expatriate finds in the most ordinary pleasures as well as in the seemingly meaningless adventures in life" (x).
For even Martin “was made aware again and again of the presence of some malevolent force obstinately trying to convince him that life was not at all the happy easy thing he had imagined” (102).
I said I often wished that I knew more than very basic Russian when I read him, since even that much was generally enough to show I was missing jokes and allusions.
I assumed he must be pretty good.No, said the guy, he didn't know any Russian.
Well, I was surprised, but not nearly as surprised as I was when he almost immediately afterwards revealed that he didn't know French either.How can you decide you're writing on PhD on Nabokov without knowing French or Russian?
To me, it sounded like deciding to write a PhD on General Relativity without knowing calculus, but probably I'm just displaying my ignorance here.
A long time ago Ivan, a dear stranger who has a lovely blog - Nabokolia, asked me to write a small piece on Nabokov.
I can go on….Glory – One of Nabokov’s transcendent little works did not do any of the above - but it touched the silkiest cobwebs of my madness – releasing a flock of hummingbirds.
But there was something about Glory, something like a languid blossoming, a fragrant tenderness of things lost.
As he grows up, the dream of the forest path becomes a motif, an abstract longing.
Throughout the book we encounter several not-so-rememberable characters but, seen through the compassionate, wondering eyes of Edelweiss, they become unique.
Despite a longing for his homeland, he clearly fancies the chameleon possibilities of being a free-floating cosmopolitan, of being Russian, English, Swiss, French, or German, such as his dandy whims dictate.Nabokov starts the novel beautifully by placing young Martin in the context of familial aristocratic expectations.
Nabby evokes this in a loving and scintillating description of a vintage photo album highlighting the family's legendary grandfather; the mummified images of him caught in timeless stasis, in stiff Prussian-like splendor, sure of himself and his world, not bothered by any apparent self-awareness.Almost right away we feel that Martin will rebel against this, yet at the same time realize his sense of guilt, or at least a sense of annoyance, at being bound to these expectations without having any intention of matching them.
The coquettish Sonia can be seen as being somewhat heartless and Martin’s friend, Darwin, descends into a vague kind of vapidity by the end of the novel, yet one senses that it is the peripheral characters, such as the Russophile Archibald Moon, or Martin’s mother Sofia, whose inner lives make the greatest impression on the reader.
The theme is simple, but because the novel is set between WWI and WWII, Glory might be best described as a somewhat cynical allegory about the plight of the "Lost Generation"--those ex-patriots who retreated to Paris during the 20s and 30s.
Martin does not know who he is, where he has come from, or where he is going.
The appeal of this book is the sheer force of Nabokov's gorgeous writing.
There are passages in this book which I read and re-read, astounded by the clarity, the precision, the sheer beauty of Nabokov's prose.Glory is a literary delicacy, best savored slowly.
Hasta sus libros menores son obras mayores. Hay que leer a Nabokovhttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
A Dream Comes TrueI read this because I had a dream that I read this. But the book I read in my dream was much smaller, palm-sized, like one of those toy New Testaments, those prizes for scripture-memorization that one can win on a rainy morning in Sunday school if one raises their hand soon enough, catches the teacher's eye.
We follow the life and development of Martin Edelweiss, a Swiss-Russian, from childhood to university graduate of Cambridge in England.
I found difficulty in growing attached to the protagonist.With leitmotifs of “light and dark”, “winding paths that disappear into the forest”, “the sound of water”, and the various modes of “journey”, a fairy-tale like quality to the novel is stylistically painted and lends to the enchantment of the story.However, I found the development of the story sleepy and the stark conclusion dissatisfying.
There are some nice turns of phrase and trademark drollery, but an uninspired protagonist and subtle multiplicity of meaning absent made a rather weak story.
I read the Foreword and first chapter (which was only about 2 pages) early this morning.
All I can manage to say through the fog of exhaustion today is that I find Nabokov's authorial voice delightful.
I usually skip the Forewords, but I saw that this one was dated on my birthday -- three years before I was born, but my birthday nonetheless, so I felt compelled by the cosmic symmetry to read it.
I'm glad I did, because the writing was delightful and insightful.
I shall definitely continue reading.
A very early and rather romantic Nabokov. A young man's novel, but surprisingly powerful, and full of Russian romanticism and melancholy.
'Glory’s' story has much in common with the author’s, although unlike Nabokov’s other autobiographical Russian novel, 'The Gift', significantly, the hero here, Martin, has no outstanding talents or even any specific drive, and that is partly what the book is about.
Quite a few of Nabokov’s leading characters we do not like, but we like Martin, and it is important for the impact of this work that we do, that we feel with Martin’s friends and relatives at his fate.
The effect of that is to throw the reader back upon the character of Martin, to focus on his magnetism and desires, which together serve to illustrate for us a significant life lesson.

Un roman-povestire ale cărui pagini, toate probe de măiestrie a scrisului, au trecut una după cealaltă, ușor-ușor, fără intrigă, fără acțiune. Când, în ultimele 10-12 pagini, chiar s-a întâmplat ceva - tânărul Martin Edelweiss, elvețian de origine rusă, pornește într-o îndelung visată călătorie sinucigașă prin Rusia sovietică - cartea se termină abrupt. :-I
Climaxes in a neat narrative magic trick that's both an ephemeral disappearing act and a harsh cold-shower come-down from the quixotic harmlessness of the first 200 pages. One of Nabokov's better Russian novels.
Nabokov: amore e odio. A volte mi infiamma di entusiasmo, a volte mi annoia fino alla depressione. Questa volta, noia.
"Un'«evasione» […] è soltanto una cella più pulita a un piano più tranquillo." (Prefazione, p. 15)
Because he left Russia at such a young age, his love for the country is fierce and lingering, idealized through the Madeleine-style bursts of memory that pepper his travels from throughout Europe.Where I don't get Martin, or what I can't like about him, is his attachment to Sonia, the daughter of family friends, who has clearly expressed that she is Not Interested, and his foolish idea that returning to the Soviet Union illegally (when legal options are available, when there is no purpose and no ultimate greater good to his return) will impress her.
Basically there is another ‘rosebud’ every time the mood shifts, every prop and postcard on the set a coded message from the netherworld of Memory.This may all sound a bit whizzy and wispy, but as rendered by Nabokov the shape-shifting narrative elements are held to account by the grounding influences of irony and humor, in effectively calculated doses.
From here it’s a short rush to the edge of the cliff, where a youth (and maybe Youth) falls into a swooning plunge, the defining arc of the narrative.All of the elements of the later VN are noticeable here, yet we’re not yet in the presence of the Master he would become, at least not in this translation.
Don't start with this one if you're looking to read past Lolita. Not his best, though perhaps more reminiscent of Sebald and Zweig than most others I've read by him... if you're into that kind of thing.
Изграждане на образа внимателно, щрих по щрих - главният герой Мартин е руски емигрант, животът му протича в Швейцария, Англия, Германия, преминава през Франция, но никъде той не се чувства чужд, нито пък се чувства у дома си.
Няма я и носталгията по Русия /както може да се очаква в подобен роман, още повече като се има предвид животът на самия автор/, Мартин е възпитаван от майка си по английски маниер.
Така естествено стига да идеята за един безсмислен подвиг, който да го утвърди не само пред Соня, но и пред самия него...Има едно много внимателно въведено предчувствие за края, внушено чрез емоциите на майката.
I was starting to really like Nabokov and I guess that's why this book disappoints me more than it would if it came from an author I already didn't like.
He [Nabokov:] seems to have the tendency to start things brilliantly, but then gradually lose his pathos.
The first half of this book, until Martin graduates from Cambridge was both interesting and funny.
Things were happening and you felt like reading on, in any case.
But once he leaves schools, nothing happens, at least nothing interesting or remotely significant.
Calm, quiet, mystical, and with just "a touch of the fantastic," this is distinctly different Nabokov, yet still with the recognizable voice of the master.
As usual, the language is perfection, this time picturesquely evocative of nature and its mysteries.
The mood begins with ironic comedy then evolves toward a fulfilling melancholy, taking it's glorious time along the way.
At the end, the story simply disappears with a quiet starkness you will not forget.Glory does not suffer in comparison with his other works.
Perhaps only those who are infatuated with one or two of his nymphettic novels, and are expecting more of the same here, will be disappointed.
Glory is a cautionary tale for me. Nabokov displays moments of greatness, like the fight scene in this book. His books cannot be faulted in construction, organization or language as motifs and themes weave in and out of themselves consistently. And that is the problem -- too consistent, too logical, too direct to make the story come alive -- the puppet show is ruined because the strings of the author are all too apparent. I see Nabokov more than I see the characters, yet he is interesting enough to make me hang out until the end.
