https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6015220-letter-on-humanism
In this statement he is taking existentia and essentia according to their metaphysical meaning, which from Plato’s time on has said that essentia precedes existentia.
But the basic tenet of ‘existentialism‘ has nothing at all in common with the statement from Being and Time -- apart from the fact that in Being and Time no statement about the relation of essentia and existentia can yet be expressed, since there it is still a question of preparing something precursory.” (p250r, link below)Earlier:_______________________Existentialism is a Humanism is making its rounds on goodreads.
Reading Heidegger in english is difficult.
However, this letter reflects the main essence of his work in Being and Time and shows how Sartre misinterpreted the work.
As usual, Heidegger makes clear the essence and the need of thinking, beyond mere philosophy and action.
Some people say that this Heidegger is not the Heidegger from Being and Time: this is is different.
Nevetheless, this is a letter that must be read after you read Being and Time and What is Metaphysics...I recommend this fantastic, despite the rating.
"Because we are speaking against ‘logic’ people believe we are demanding that the rigour ofthinking be renounced and in its place the arbitrariness of drives and feelings be installed and thusthat ‘irrationalism’ be proclaimed as true.
For what is more ‘logical’ than that whoever speaksagainst the logical is defending the alogical?...
For what is more “logical” than that whoever roundly denies what is truly in being puts himself on the side of nonbeing and thus professes the pure nothing at the meaning of reality?."Heidegger switches from lucid and interesting writing on 'being' which flies in the face of everything the analytic tradition holds dearly, but then goes on long digressions which leave me totally dumbfounded, and have me questioning what relation the words have to the text Heidegger is responding to (Sartre's Existentialism and Humanism), or the ideas Heidegger is advancing.
4.5
Creo que no entendí mucho. El pensamiento que se expresa en el lenguaje es el devenir del ser del hombre... o algo así.
The Russian and the English translators both tried to provide something coherent (of their own) in places where he speaks in tongues (examples given in previous updates).Overall the first half of the book is interesting.
The rest of it might make sense to people who read three or four of his other works for which he does exegesis in tis book.Wherefore, since in fact they are μωρότατoι (“most foolish”) and yet are eager to seem wise men and veritable Thaleses, shall we not with entire justice dub them μωρoσόϕoυς (“foolosophers”)?
La noción de existencialismo en el lenguaje heideggeriano es la facticidad por el cual es ser-ahí es en-el-mundo.
Su posibilidad no es un estado de abierto hacia el futuro sino recaer o proyectarse hacia la nada o ser relativamente a la muerte.
El existencialismo en Heidegger es la relación entre pensar y la memoria.
El humanismo en Heidegger es la dirección de la filosofía que hace del hombre la medida del ser en lugar de subordinar el hombre al ser.
En general el humanismo se puede entender como cualquier dirección filosófica que tenga en cuenta las posibilidades y límites del hombre o la naturaleza humana.
I motsetning til min tidligere lesing av Heidegger er dette den første gangen jeg har klart å lese filosofien hans og samtidig forstå hva som blir skrevet. Poenget som Heidegger her fremlegger er slettes latterlig og essensløst: å vende tilbake til tenkingen, ikke filosofi - å vende tilbake til språket, ikke litteratur. Jeg klarte ikke å se bort ifra at Heideggers forsøk simpelthen gikk ut på å danne en østlig versjon av den vestlige filosofi, og hvor smakløst er det ikke å be om "irrasjonalitet" i en kontekst som søker rasjonalitet? Anbefales til pretensiøse "nysgjerrige" legemer, 1,5/5.
Haven't tackled anything that dense in a while. Spent most of my time reading this trying to determine a) what, exactly, he means when he cites "metaphysics" and b) how much of his theory/philosophy was informed by his Nazi affiliations.
Dit boek lezen tijdens mijn opleiding psychologie onder de leiding van Professor Rudolf Böhm was een aparte en beklijvende ervaring
Once you get it, it's kinda interesting. It took me two lectures and a seminar to get what he was trying to say though, so I can't say it was a nice read. Frustrating above all.
Finiti
A good clarifciation on some contepts and obvious objections from Being and Time, and a polemic with Sartre's Existentialism is a Humanism.
WOTTT? Lo he dejado a medias, mi sesera no aspira a cotas tan altas.
