https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/941731.The_Death_of_Grass
”Pity always was a luxury. It’s all right if the tragedy’s a comfortable distance away--if you can watch it from a seat in the cinema. It’s different when you find it on your doorstep--on every doorstep.” Red Rice FieldIt was called the Chung-Li Virus and first appeared by destroying the rice crops in China. "That is too bad, those poor Chinese." "What did you think of the coffee today wasn’t it bold? It is from somewhere in Africa. We’ll have to get more of that." "I hear the Americans are send
I came to the understanding that all men are friends by convenience and enemies by choice.”When the grass turns brown you might think to yourself...damn my lawn looks like crap quickly followed by woohoo no more mowing...followed by wait don’t cows eat grass?...followed by, but I like cheeseburgers.
The grass turns brown all over England and suddenly China isn’t this distant land with terrible problems.
To reach the farm, John is going to need friends and form alliances with people he doesn’t know.
I came away with two questions.First how are these A-Listers going to make it to Kansas to survive the next plague?
The central theme of the novel: How delicate and fragile is the veneer of civilization and how quickly the survival instinct can subdue, handcuff and gag the better angels of our nature.
THOUGHTS:As mentioned above, the central premise of the story is to how our decency is fragile and quickly becomes burdensome baggage that we unload when faced with extreme circumstances.
John Christopher’s ability to authentically show this brutal and unvarnished view of humanity is what makes this story so effective and sets it apart from other books of its type.
The man with technical knowledge is killed.
The story always ends with the group now much enlarged, being led by a 'decent' man who will elect a committee to run things in the tribe.
There are no real surprises in these stories and therein lies the problem - the ending is likely to be disappointing because it's more or less the same one in every book.I enjoyed this book, the apocalyptic factor a virus that kills all grass and cereal crops was quite a good one, but there is no getting away from it, there was nothing original about it at all.
Yes, a virus does emerge that attacks all forms of grass and spreads virulently across the globe defying mankind's attempts to halt it in its tracks but really that is just a vehicle for the author's exploration of how quickly and completely civilization might collapse and how completely previously mild natured and morally scrupulous people my be forced to change.At the start I could not help but compare John Christopher to John Wyndham as another British writer writing about 1950's Britain facing apocalypse and focusing on middle class protagonists.
The world-famous novel of the ultimate famine!    The Death of Grass by John ChristopherMy rating: 4 of 5 stars Essential Must-Read Seemingly Forgotten Dystopian Classic Blurb: The Death of Grass is an entirely original kind of science-fiction - it is not about space-travel, time-travel, or mechanical men. It recounts the terrifying changes on the face of the earth when the balance of nature is upset - and it takes place not in the future but now.The characters are middle class people who live
It recounts the terrifying changes on the face of the earth when the balance of nature is upset - and it takes place not in the future but now.The characters are middle class people who live serenely until the grass begins to die - upon which their personalities begin imperceptibly to change with the changes that creep over the landscape.
Wyndham's characters fight for survival and kill when attacked, John Custance, Christopher's hero, leaps into violence and never seems to try to put a brake on it.
The violence and bloodshed are a ticking bomb and it remains only superficially buried in the Cumbrian valley and it is this which negates Christopher's story and moves it to a 3.5 rather than a 4.The book made me think and question and cringe and sharply breathe in and in a novel purporting to be exciting that cannot be bad.
There's a good introduction in this edition that discusses, among other things, how this work compares with John Wyndham's Day of the Triffids and William Golding's Lord of the Flies.
Christopher instead shows an evolution of character in his main protagonist from Piggy to Lead Choirboy (whose name I can't recall).(This analogy works in approximate terms, only.)The book is well thought out, well constructed, well written, has a good ending and takes an interesting, not oft examined approach to moral questions that puts me in mind of Roger Zelazny's more extreme character arcs in Jack of Shadows and Changeling and...J.G. Ballard.
I really wanted to give this book 4 stars as I was reading it - I found it incredibly engrossing and the character and situation they find themselves in are pretty believable and amazing all at the same time.
So the book follows John Custance as he deals with the Chung-Li virus as it begins destroying every type of grass in the world.
And my issue and why the book gets discounted 1 star is that,well, I'd like to see how they'd be able to civilise anyone after they themselves have been driven, on their walk to the valley, to commit the most heinous crime know to humanity - the killing of another human being.
When David removes a patch of pesky rice grass and discovers it is diseased things start to take on bleak outlook and he tells John to return to the farm before things get desperate.
John returns to his life in the city unwisely waiting far too long as things begin to take a turn towards the bleak.
The most disturbing thing about this story was just how quickly the darker instincts bubbled to the surface of the characters when they were faced with their own mortality and forced to protect those they loved.This book focuses strongly on the breakdown of society and it is effectively chilling in its portrayal of the desperation for all involved.
1200, in case your editor died?
My favorite is the shortest science fiction story written by Fredric Brown called “The Knock”, only two sentences long and as it happens; has fewer words than this paragraph.
The deeper you think, the chillier it gets.Of course, Fredric Brown explained his story.The Death of Grass, even though just about 200 pages long, packs a real punch which it delivers right to the reader's gut.
This is not one of your cozy catastrophes but is in fact the darkest, grimiest post-apocalyptic fiction you will ever come across.
In all of them, we see society collapsing, torn apart by the pressure of finding a way to survive.
The Death of Grass is no different, but it's very well written and well structured.
There's a Chekhov's gun or two, a good structure which takes us from calm gentility to the feudal need to survive terrifyingly believably, terribly fast.
It's easy to wring your hands and call your protector a tyrant, but not so easy to walk away from that protection.So, yeah, well-written and definitely worth a read if post-apocalypse worlds or human nature are your interest.
You wrote a shitty, boring book about an apocalypse, which is kind of difficult to do.ETA: I think what makes me the most angry about this book is that there are plenty of ways to write about how thin the veneer of civilization is and how quickly man would turn to monster in the event of a world-wide food shortage and facing imminent starvation.
There are plenty of ways to show a person making that descent.
And everyone told me this book was a classic so I was really excited to read it!And he managed to take all of those interesting things and suck all of the interesting out of them to make it a dry, boring, incredibly shitty book.
This book offers a frightening prospect, as well as an eye-opening view of human nature and a post-apocalyptic environment. The Death of Grass was well-written, vivid and haunting, with complex characters and a strange, original plot.
Now perhaps in these days of global warming, Asian bird flu and genetically modified crops, it is perhaps time for a revaluation.The story begins with the announcement of a virus, the Chung-Li virus, appearing in Asia wiping out grass and members of the grass family species.
Originally published at about the same time as John Wyndham’s much more famous novel, The Day of the Triffids, The Death of Grass looks at similar catastrophic themes to Wyndham, but with a much bleaker outcome.Strangely, though over 50 years old, I found that many of the themes are prescient to today’s society, the reliance on other countries for food, the ‘carry on as normal against adversity’ attitude, though there are important differences.
The road trip of our heroes from London to the north of England, where the dale is located is hard and bleak enough, but left me with the impression that John Christopher forgot some practical details.Ok, all grasses belonging to the graminae family are suddenly dead.
Or am I the ignorant one who needs to check if fruit trees do after all belong to the graminae family?Then Christopher tells us that all trains stopped running.
I get things were going to get rough.
But I began to have some major issues with how things were proceeding.
I shall list the reasons why.(view spoiler)[ the two guards did not need to be shot.
John's wife and daughter are kidnapped and raped and....
Fuck you John, you stand there while Millicent is murdered, and it's OK because it was her husband who did it?
Fuck off and die John.
Oh, and you let the murderer take the young girl as his new wife !?
(hide spoiler)]Those are but a few reasons why I am angry.
Very good post-apocalyptic novel that realistically depicts the break-down of society in the wake of a global disaster.
But while civilization devolves into dog-eat-dog, I couldn't help thinking how our protagonists were so damn polite about it.
Every time they took a savage reaction they would verbally explain it to others.
But seriously, I think we would have a compulsion to explain ourselves even in the midst of catastrophe.
After all, civilization may go down fast but it doesn't go down easy.Nonetheless, this is one of the earlier and best of the 50s post-apocalyptic novels.
Great premise: grass dying and hence our food, and a famine leads to the unravelling of society.
It’s been compared to Lord of the Flies and just like with Lord of the Flies I wasn’t a fan of the execution.
It’s a male power fantasy.
Once laws are a thing of the past, the man is in charge and can kill his wife then take a teenager as his new wife the next day.
I do believe society can unravel in days but I do think average people would try and hold onto “being good” for a bit longer than this book suggests.
A disturbing and at times deeply depressing novel about how quickly the veneer of civilisation disappears when a catastrophe strikes.
This book is widely regarded as a classic and is often compared with novels such as Day of the Triffids (which I read last year) and Lord of the Flies (which I really must get around to reading soon).
It seems that this novel is where I got that image from, and it's a powerful one to have survived nearly 40 years in my mind.
First wave hits China and South East Asia hard, wiping out all grasses including rice, mass food shortages and panic and riots take hold ending in massive populations dying.
Britain circums fast causing massive food shortages, rioting and anarchy on the streets.
John Custance and his family battle their way out of London heading for his brother, David's small holding situated in a geographically isolated valley in the remote hills of Northern England.
Can John and his family and a group of individuals following him reach the farm before chaos overtakes the land?
Shows what happens in an apocalypse when all grass is dead and everyone has to fight for the leftover potatoes.
Unfortunately the cattle live on grass so they die out too.
(Wait, don't the factory farms feed them corn and soymeal)?
Short and dialog driven, 'Scalzi-an'?, works well as an audiobook, if you can find it.
Goodreads says it's only 200 pages.
Who writes novels that short these days?
I just discussed this with Jesse & Jenny on Sffaudio.
Excuse me while I listen to my gramophone.It's in David Pringle's list of 100 best sf novels: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54...Sffaudio podcast spoilerific discussion and shownotes: http://www.sffaudio.com/?p=43132
Introduction--The Death of Grass
However, his friend Roger, a civil servant, hears rumours about things rapidly getting worse, and they decide to leave London, heading for a remote and easily-defended valley, where John's brother has a farm.In a very short space of time, the government loses control of society, and law and order breaks down.
Suddenly the ones with the guns get to decide how things are done.The book was written and set in England in the mid-fifties, and it's a product of its time - it does feel like quite an old-fashioned read, as England back then was a very different place.
When the virus finally makes its way over to the Western world, particularly Europe and England, that's when the depth of the problem reaches home - literally and otherwise, I guess.I found this book enthralling because it takes a look at how humans might actually react in the face of such an apocalypse.
There is an intro at the beginning of this version which is worth a read.To end, quite an apt quote, especially in light of what's going on in the world today:In a way, I think I feel it would be more right for the virus to win, anyway.
I love stories like this, that have an element of the possible and that result in nature showing humanity that we really are not the ones in charge after all (kinda morbid and a little twisted I know but what can I say, human arrogance really annoys me).
Not only that, the story as a whole is well written with a good mix of action and tension as we follow John Custance, his family and the friends he picks up along the way as they try and reach the safety of his brother's farm.
(first review, be gentle)It's a good idea on how fragile our 'civilized' societies are, and I don't doubt that ordinary, polite middle-class British folks would stoop to violence and murder to survive, but I don't agree they would jump to doing it so quickly, and in such cold blood. Most of the male characters turn into hard, calculating automatons half-way through the novel, abandoning all civilized morals overnight almost.And, being written in 1950s Britain, there's the usual sexism and racism and classism, and the unrealistic depictions of children and their dialog.
I went into this a cynic: 1950s sci fi? Isn't that Day of the Triffids and the Blob territory, the so -bad -its- good (not) era? But John Christopher nails it in Death of Grass. Sci fi motifs are secondary to social commentary about the breakdown of civilisation, which of course he would have seen prominently in WWII. came out sold on this book.
https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00h...Description: The Chung-Li virus has devastated Asia, wiping out the rice crop and leaving riots and mass starvation in its wake.
The rest of the world looks on with concern, though safe in the expectation that a counter-virus will be developed any day.
Then Chung-Li mutates and spreads.
A tightly written, well-crafted sci-fi, post-apocalyptic 1956 novel that has since become a classic.
Written by British author Samual Youd using a pen name, it's a quick read but with well-developed characters and a fast-moving plot.
A virus develops that begins in China and attacks and kills all varieties of grass including wheat, rice, barley, rye, etc.
It spreads across the globe as man tries to stop it unsuccessfully.
Society quickly dissolves, even in super civilized England where our band of characters tries to survive.
Given the anxiety of climate change and the environment today, this 62-year-old novel still holds up really well.
UKUPNA OCENA (overall rating) ★★★★ 4/5- Radnja (story) ★★★★- Ideja (plot idea) ★★★★★- Okruženje (setting) ★★★- Pripovedanje (writing style) ★★★★- Likovi (characters) ★★★★UTISAK (summary) - Civilizizacija je nametnuta tvorevina i tanka je linija koja čoveka vraća u varvarstvo.
