https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/378.The_Phantom_Tollbooth
When thinking ahead to reading time at night, I want to be excited.
I'm fairly sure the formal term for a book like this is a picaresque.
My point is, there's a lot of things going on in American Gods.
He's a dog with a clock in his body.) He also enjoyed the fact that the Watchdog could fly a little because of the expression "time flies." That said, he didn't get about 85% of the jokes in the book.
This is a book that your kid probably needs to be 10 to really enjoy, as it's got a lot of wordplay in it.
Just because you have a choice, it doesn’t mean that any of them has to be right.”this is an amazing insight and i wish i DID remember this book from my childhood days, because lord knows it is a useful lesson and it’s one that many adults haven’t figured out.
I don't remember much about this book, except that I loved it to pieces, and that the subtraction stew always made me really hungry.
My mother got this for us when I was 8 and it was first published in 1961.
I still own that original edtion and it is not in great shape due to multiple readings.
This is as much an adult as a children's book.
Although I loved the story right away, it was more meaningful as I got older and I understood all the plays on words and deeper messages.
Still worth rereading every decade or so as an adult, and it remains one of my favorite books.
It's a very witty book.
You can swim all day in the Sea of Knowledge and still come out completely dry.  After a long time, this is the first children book I've read. It's a good book. I read this book because of its amazing cover. And the fact that it's my cousin's course book. She lent it to me and I read it in three sittings. And loved it!It's the story of a bored child, Milo who doesn't find anything interesting in the real world. One day he gets Phantom Tollbooth as present which allows him to go to the Land Bey
After a long time, this is the first children book I've read.
I read this book because of its amazing cover.
The Land Beyond has two main and important kingdoms, Dictionpolis and Digitopolis.
Dictionpolis is ruled by the king of words, Azaz.
Both kingdoms are at conflict because their kings are biased of their own way of communication.
=> I loved Dictionpolis more than Digitopolis.
In Dictionpolis, one *literally* eats his own words.
😅 => This book contains some indirect lessons which I think is a good way to represent.
The way he made it un-silent was incredible.
In this charming children's book, author Norton Juster takes us on an adventure with his main character Milo, a young boy who enters a chaotic place called the Kingdom of Wisdom and finds that to restore order in the kingdom, he must save the banished princesses Rhyme and Reason.When the story begins, Milo gets home one afternoon expecting to go through the same humdrum after-school routine he always goes through.
Page after page, Juster's clever puns and witty plays on words make his characters memorable and his storyline entertaining.On his journey, Milo travels to several places within the Kingdom of Wisdom, learning useful things along the way.
"RESULTS ARE NOT GUARANTEED, BUT IF NOT PERFECTLY SATISFIED, YOUR WASTED TIME WILL BE REFUNDED." That is the promise the boy Milo receives when he embarks on a hilarious adventure to rescue two princesses named Rhyme and Reason in a fantasy land beyond the Phantom Tollbooth, which he explores with a colourful bunch of characters.
You can learn a lot about a person by what their childhood was like- whether they played outside all the time or preferred to stay indoors, whether they read or didn't, whether they drew or played sports or learned instruments and languages.I, for one, loved words.
And perhaps you would be able to tell, just by looking at it, that it taught me one of the most important lessons I've learned: that imagination is a beautiful thing, and even if you think that you're too old for things like word games and math equations and fun facts and puns and stories- things, in short, that bring you knowledge and delight, even if you think you've outgrown them...
It's amazing how much of this had faded from my memory since childhood.Norton takes all these common phrases and ideas and puts them together in a way that makes them feel absurd.
Words are important and this book encourages a curiosity about language and words and how things can be used.
It is a fun little middle grade read that I'm so glad is still around.
I did listen to this in the car on my way to school and I can't remember many of the wonderful quotes from characters I would love to put down here and comment on.
I had fun reading it.

However, the fact remains that I was not very interested from page to page, and if not for a commitment to a book group, I am afraid I would not have had any desire to finish it.In style the book seems to be written for a particular age group ranging from 8-11, depending on the vocabulary and maturity of the reader.
Introducing, then immediately leaving a moral behind decreases the likeliness that it will be remembered once the book is finished.
My other main problem with the book was the lack of description to help the reader enjoy the fantastical and quite creative world Juster introduces.
The Phantom Tollbooth is a strange beast: decidedly accessible to children, but remains lovable to adults.
It's championing of the struggle against moral short-cuts, boredom, and mental waste is timeless, ageless, and remains prescient, even to me: a grown person 52 years after it's publication!My grandmother has always said: "only boring people get bored" - I am guilty of sometimes serving this packaged wit cold when a friend laments "I'm bored!" but I think forcefully throwing this book at them would be a better remedy.
Is this the cleverest book of all time?
I think this is the cleverest book of all time.I so deeply enjoyed rereading this.
When I was younger, I would only keep books that I would reread over and over - and I would pick up each one, seriously, an average of 4 to 6 times.
And it's been a mixed bag, but rereading this was just the greatest.There were so many puns and allusions and metaphors I didn't understand the first (eleven) times I read it, so they made rereading this like a whole new experience.
As an outlet from the grueling work, though, he spent his free time concocting the imaginative scenes that later became The Phantom Tollbooth.
And we’re all better off for it.Part Alice in Wonderland, part secular Pilgrim’s Progress, The Phantom Tollbooth takes ten year-old Milo on a journey out of boredom and into a wild world of Watchdogs (dogs made from big watches), the Mathemagician (who rules over the city Digitopolis), King Azaz the Unabridged (who rules over Dictionopolis), and creatures like the Awful Dynne, who collects the noisy sounds of the world, and the Lethargarians, who sit around and do nothing all day.
Every child should read The Phantom Tollbooth; it’s a bit of a lesson book on how to live.
Not "Learning is fun!" propaganda but "Hurry up, slow poke!" adventure stories in the vein of all the best ones.
It's good for you.I loved that Milo wanted to be away when he was home and away when he was home.
No phantom tollbooth ever appeared to take me away (at least that wasn't in this book).
I was really good at missing the point of these kinds of stories.
Have fun at home?
I'm probably weird...p.s. They made us watch the cartoon in elementary school.
Too bad it wasn't actually from the '70s.
I suck.P.s.s. And I never tagged this under "dogs" ("myonlyfriend", duh!).
But someday you'll reach them all, for what you learn today, for no reason at all, will help you discover all the wonderful secrets of tomorrow." When I started to re-read The Phantom Tollbooth a few weeks ago, I was very excited, but I was also a little bit nervous.
But instead I was greeted with the pleasant surprise that The Phantom Tollbooth is still wonderful, and - without me realizing it, really - I think it had a huge determining course on who I wound up being as a person.
It's full of reverence for words and their potential power, and its just imbued all the way through with a wonder for absolutely everything in the world.
I recommend reading Mia's review, because it's a true work of art, and without it, I would have never learnt about this wonderful little book.
“You must never feel badly about making mistakes,” explained Reason quietly, “as long as you take the trouble to learn from them.
I myself had so much to learn from the book, betwixt all the laughs and the amusement provided by the wordplay.
Whether a child or an adult, you'll laugh, cry, learn, and be a little bit wiser after you're done.
Illustrations by Jules FeifferFrom the book jacket - Through the Phantom Tollbooth lies a strange land and a series of even stranger adventures in which Milo meets some of the most logically illogical characters ever met on this side or that side of reality, including King Azaz the Unabridged, unhappy ruler of Dictionopolis; the Mathemagician; Faintly Macabre, the not-so-wicked Which; and the watchdog Tock, who ticks.
“Only when you use a lot to say a little,” answered Tock.“…that explains why today people use as many words as they can and think themselves very wise for doing so.
Apparently a classic in the US; I wanted to read it because I vaguely remembered snippets of it - I think I must have read it at a library or the like.In the end, I could see why it might be loved by some children - those fascinated by language, in particular.
Some of them are quite clever puns, and the Moral Message is less aggressive and more heartwarmingly, platitudinously encouraging (and safely vague and non-specific) when taken over the course of a novel than when reduced in summary.
Well I've had this book up on my goodreads shelves for a long time but had no particular idea what to write about it save: Clever playful little book about a boy who drives through the phantom tollbooth of the title and winds up on a quest to rescue the Princesses Rhyme and Reason.
It would seem crude and low even by my own (view spoiler)[ complete lack of (hide spoiler)] standards to make a cultural point here about the differences between the USA and Britain in terms if individualist car driving versus collectivist sharing of train journeys (view spoiler)[ with the communion of train picnics (hide spoiler)] revealed through children's writing, but today that's all I've got.
It's been my experience that while no singular author or book has ever consciously "blown my mind," many have done so unconsciously, including this one.
How can you not love a world where you can only get to the island of Conclusions by jumping or where cars go without saying or where the Mathemagician transports our heroes to the Mountains of Ignorance by carrying the three?Like Milo, I can easily fall into apathy and I like to think that my various enthusiasms were sparked by his example.
I've always read ravenously, but when I was younger, I didn't really understand the idea of going out and trying to find good books to read.
Instead, I'd read the handful of books I had over and over again.
Pretty much any book with lots of words was automatically good, fiction, non-fiction, cookbooks, manuals for computer programs, I would seriously read anything that was in the house.
(And yet I'd never read anything I was supposed to read for school, nor would I ever go to the public library, nor even Barnes and Noble, where my mother worked.)Despite that, there were a couple books that were perennial favorites.
it's like amelia badelia for halfway-grownups.here's what i think of when i think of the phantom tollbooth:-people trying (and failing) to feed themselves with five-foot long spoons-people having to (but not wanting to) eat their words-semi-philosophical ideas about time and being and the way people treat themselves and each other*what a doozy of a book!
okay, well let me add this: i think you should read it.
try it out and let me know what you think, please.
at least i think there were some serious undertones when i last read the phantom tollbooth (e.g. when i was 10).
This seems like the kind of book that snooty parents would want their kids to read on the way to fencing lessons while chomping on their organic granola.
Always hoping that their ever blossoming renaissance child will wow a crowd of adults with their clever anecdotes and mature vocabulary.Personally, I believe kids should be selfish, obnoxious intrusions in our lives constantly on the verge of burning down the house while eating highly processed foods and stepping over their Archie comics collection.(All afore mention opinions can be discounted by the fact that my younger brother loved this book and grew without snooty parents or fencing lessons.
What a delightful little book!
Every chapter held something new to chuckle at, wonder at, and take to heart.With a dash of "Alice in Wonderland," a generous helping of childhood whimsy, and a refreshing dose of common sense, Milo's journey through the Kingdom of Wisdom left me much to ponder.
This is definitely a book I'll read to my future kids one day!And that ending!
It stirred up that sense of having an immeasurable world of wonder at your fingertips.
It makes me want to read, walk, learn, sit still, and discover all at once--and what could be better than that?Many thanks to the dear friend who sent me this lovely birthday present!
This is such a wonderful book about Milo and the Watchdog and his incredible adventures through both language and mathematics. Full of inventive language and puns, it makes me sad that Norton Juster didn't write more children's books. This on is abfab and a must!
After the first 50 pages I know this will be on my bedside table for the rest of my life!
I LOVE THIS BOOK.
If you know a kid who's smart but shy, who loves to read and loves to learn, and maybe feels a little "out of things" with their friends because of it--give them this book.
And to anybody else who, like me, has read this book and been changed for the better by it, I'd like to say one thing: "Many places you would like to see are just off the map and many things you want to know are just out of sight or a little beyond your reach.
Norton Juster lived around the block from me when I was a kid. We all steered clear of his house because our parents told us he was a miserable bastard. That's not true; when I asked my mom about it last year she was horrified. She said he was a really nice man and she has no idea where I got that terrible but clear memory. Anyway, I read this like fifty times when I was a kid and is there an Italo Calvino fan in the world who didn't start with this, the child's introduction to metafiction?
I think this is the only school book I liked.Puberty had just taken effect and so I was tripping my balls off on hormones: "My boobs hurt. There is blood on my panties. I hate everyone. Does that dog have a clock on it?"
