https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13707720-leave-it-to-psmith
The sudden downpour not permitting it, inside magic, the formerly well-to- do Psmith is invited to the castle by the Earl, call him Clarence, the family does, both are members, not having his spectacles, mistakes Mr. Psmith, for a famous, though temperamental Canadian poet, Ralston McTodd who had left before, being insulted by the Lord.
And lucky Eve will be working for the less than brilliant Earl in his library, criminals arrive too, everyone including the aristocrat's son wants the jewelry ( and Eve) , that belong to his beautiful aunt, the sister of his father, Lady Constance the formidable, who likes having the not quite honorable literary crowd around.
In trying to explain to my husband exactly why I find Wodehouse so laugh-out-loud funny, I used this passage: "One uses the verb 'descend' advisedly, for what is required is some word suggesting instantaneous activity.
"Planting his food firmly on a golf-ball which the Hon. Freddie Threepwood, who had been practising putting in the corridor before retiring to bed, had left in his casual fashion just where the steps began, he took the entire stiarcase in one majestic, volplanning sweep." This is an excellent example of Wodehouse's exquisite characterization.
Why oh why did I wait to read one of Wodehouse's Psmiths?
Psmith is a character that resides somewhere between Wooster and Jeeves in temperament and intellect.
The setting is good old Blandings Castle.
So, while Psmith was an unfamiliar character, I was quite familiar with Blandings and its inmates from numerous other Wodehouse books.
The various characters have their desires and foibles, all of which are bouncing off one another throughout, creating havoc and mayhem in often humorous ways.While not my favorite of Wodehouse's books, Leave It To Psmith ranks right up there!
I've skipped a couple of his adventures, as they were not easily available at the library, and settled on the fourth book in the series, which sees Mike visiting one of the most popular spots for romance and adventure in the Wodehousian universe: the Blandings Castle.By bringing together one of the most subversive of his characters with one of his most sedate country retreats Wodehouse creates here an explosive mix that will soon have flower-pots flying at the castle's windows, serious people tumbling down staircases in the middle of the night, precious necklaces doing dissapearing acts, stern Aunts putting their foot down, mistaken identities by the bucket and last, but not least, marriage proposals and changes of the heart.
This was a delightful book, quintessential Wodehouse.
I believe that this is only one of a series of novels PFW wrote featuring Psmith, and I would love to read more.I struggle to understand and describe what makes Wodehouse such a unique author.
Other authors write escapist literature but seldom of such an amusing and pleasing kind, there being no pretense to its being anything else, no deeper meanings, no hidden agendas.
What you read is what you get, simply to be savored, to be relished.
If you have never read Wodehouse, I am deeply sorry for you.Leave It to Psmith is not the best of his novels, but it is as good a place to start exploring his inexhaustible array of country houses, eccentric gentry, American gunmen and their molls, deranged poetesses, rank impostors, hateful and efficient male secretaries, and wayward Scottish gardeners.
If you know your Wodehouse, you will note that I have not mentioned the Empress of Blandings, that prize pig which will in future Blandings novels take up all of Lord Emsworth's considerable devotions.
Word goes 'round the net . . . Don loves this book!I highly recommend this one over all of the Jeeves and Wooster novels. Psmith must have been the inspiration for Bugs Bunny, not in the sense of wacky antics, but more in his ability to talk himself into or out of any situation. Psmith's misplaced self-confidence is the perfect vehicle for Woodhouse's dry British humor. The language alone is worth experiencing.
Οι καταστάσεις είχαν τόσο πολύ μπερδευτεί, τόσα ήταν τα twists που άρχισε να γίνεται πιο ενδιαφέρον με αποτέλεσμα να το διαβάσω σε λιγότερο από 48 ώρες και κάτι.Η ιστορία:Ο Psmith (the p is silent as in psychology, psittacosis, pterosaur) βαρέθηκε να καθαρίζει ψάρια και αποφασίζει ν' αλλάξει δουλειά.
Όταν στο εστιατόριο της λέσχης που συχνάζει στο Λονδίνο ο Λόρδος Έμσγουορθ ιδιοκτήτης του Κάστρου των Μπλάντινγκς (μιας και είναι στραβός με μυωπία τριψήφιου αριθμού) τον συγχύζει με τον καναδό ποιητή που θα φιλοξενούσε στο κάστρο του.
Να σημειώσουμε ότι ο Psmith συνάντησε προηγουμένως ένα παλιό του συμμαθητή που χρειάζεται οικονομική βοήθεια από τα πεθερικά του για να φτιάξει ένα σπίτι και λίγο αργότερα τον Φρέντυ (τον κάπως χαζό) γιο του Λόρδου Έμσγουορθ.
Idyllic Blandings Castle is to play host to literary guests, including poets and poseurs, much to Lord Emsworth's dismay. His sister, Lady Constance Keeble, organises their arrival at Blandings, mostly for her own amusement. Lady Constance owns a valuable diamond necklace that she wishes to wear at the house party. Word of this necklace gets about! The entangled plot involves imposters, secretaries, poets, burglars, butlers, maids and a budding romance.Wodehouse writes with beautiful description, snappy dialogue and wonderful timing. It was a gripping, humorous and delightful book.
After a long gap of a decade or so, delving into the world of Wodehouse again. And boy, aren't I glad that I chose this book? I love PSmith, I love lord Emsworth, and seeing the two meet each other under hilarious circumstances was heavenly. Freddie too was his usual charming self. I thoroughly enjoyed this repeat read, perhaps for the third or fourth time, and I advocate this one as a pickmeup for anyone feeling a bit low.
April 2018 reread done via the marvelous narration of Jonathan Cecil (Hoopla audiobook): This book was so much more hilarious now that I am familiar with Psmith! I thought it was great as a Blandings book but now as a Psmith book, I love it even more (particularly the way Psmith interacts with Baxter). The only thing missing is The Empress... As a result, I am increasing my rating from the previous 4* (especially for the audiobook narration by Cecil).
Best known for the Jeeves and Bertie Wooster series (which is also excellent), Wodehouse wrote over 90 books in his career as well as a few different series.
Because Psmith is so original and clever and bold, trouble and chaos usually follow wherever he goes.
Leave It to Psmith is the last of the Psmith books (but you don't need to read them in order)so you can be sure that there is plenty of trouble and chaos in store.
This is one of Wodehouse's best and a must for anyone appreciating wonderful use of language and comedy.
If Lord Emsworth, Hon Freddie and Psmith combine in one novel, the result can be nothing but a human correspondence course in idiosyncrasy.Greatly enjoyed this novel despite a significant plot-hole in the middle of the plot, which in any other novel would have kept me from completing it. As Wodehouse himself says, 'A humorist has his privileges'.
Leave it to Psmith is probably the best of the best as far as P.G. Wodehouse goes. If only he'd written more than four Psmith books.
Fate, Wodehouse's biggest ally, is in full fledged quirkiness and can no longer be trusted.When Psmith arrives at Blandings Castle masquerading as a poet McTodd, he is merely just one of the long series of impostors that the household will host over the years.
Are the other guests who they say they are, or someone else completely?
Can Blandings ever get rid of these impostors?
Will Lord Emsworth ever achieve complete peace and find time to win over McAllister?
Leave it to Psmith is hilarious and in typical Wodehouse style, everything turns out happy in the end.
Psmith at Blandings Castle. What's not to love.
Like quite a few second instalments of crime series - or perhaps any type of popular series I'm less acquainted with - Leave It To Psmith has distinct similarities, in plot, in certain scenes, in paragraphs describing recurring characters, to its predecessor among the Blandings books.
Reading Wodehouse is pure bliss.
In his own words “I believe there are two ways of writing novels.
It's probably because you were born that way." "For a humorous novel you've got to have a scenario, and you've got to test it so that you know where the comedy comes in, where the situations come in … splitting it up into scenes (you can make a scene of almost anything) and have as little stuff in between as possible."Bandings castle and its characters is one the best of his creations.
Edited 27/9/2018 pure bliss reading a wodehouse book this time listening to audio book, it can’t get better than this and I am in love with psmithWonderful wonderful extremely funny book, what a different character psmith is always positive full of great ideas and coming up with all possible solutions. Entire book was superb to read also enjoyed the character of Eve and as usual our Potty lord Emsworth whose charm never fails to impress.
Hilarious! This was my first encounter with PSmith and it was extremely satisfactory. From the word go so many things were happening till the very end. This was the best of the few Wodehouses Ive read recently.
Heartily enjoyed my first Wodehouse. Review Tuesday.
Aw, I love this book so much! It's just perfect in every way. And I dare you not to love Psmith - he's the best chap ever ^_^.
This is probably one of my favorite Wodehouse books now. This was part of the Blandings Castle series. I love the character Psmith! Also Lord Emsworth. Perfectly smashing!
He makes it seem so simple to complicate things so much, so smooth to bring so many ruffles into what would normally be an easy plot to follow.
Psmith is one of Wodehouse's most flawless heroes so far (as in, not always stupid); and he is a lot of fun along the way.
Everything is wrapped up, but some things more sloppily than others, and I feel that the aforementioned genius of Wodehouse made me expect a cleaner, crisper getaway.
That is getting extremely picky, and I will happily, if not eagerly pick up another Wodehouse to follow more of the silly, sophisticated fun.
audio book. splendid.
After finishing the Jeeves and Wooster series, I decided to go right ahead, chest forward, with the Blandings Castle series.
I was, I must confess, disappointed by Something Fresh, which I didn't like all that much.
Leave it to Psmith began rather slowly, and I was gripped once more, in the early stages, with nostalgia for the Jeeves and Wooster cast.
But the story picked up, it really did, and I found myself truly swept away by Wodehouse for the first time within the world of Blandings.
I've just put in my order for the next installment—with considerable eagerness, I might add.
Hands down, one of PG Wodehouse's best books, and - at almost 300 pages - with a surprisingly negligible amount of garrulous padding. And the title character, Psmith? As verbose as they come, yet so full of charm, you cannot help but like the guy. Humour, love, assumed identities, misunderstandings - in short, everything we love about Wodehouse's books - it's all here. And to top it all off, one of the best endings I've read: all wrapped up neatly, and oh so perfectly. A gem!
and, you know, there were rites of passage, like Marita Conlon McKenna, and for all my tween years I thought I loved her, but it was only because she was one of the first 'chapter' books I read and not because that maudlin trial that is Under The Hawthrorn Tree said anything to me about life or literature) But there are problems with LJ Smith.
My relationship with those books changes every few years, it grows and it develops, and I think probably my actual, human relationships, are not so nuanced or versatile, or enduring or meaningful or cathartic or heartbreaking or constant.
If books were people, maybe they could tell you the ways in which you had changed.
Well, I'm a big fan of Jeeves and Wooster and I like the Blandings Castle books I've read so far, but this one was just so-so.
I kept asking myself why I wasn't enjoying it more and I think the problem was Psmith.
These books are meant to be zany fun, and Psmith is mostly dull.
I also didn't like the way he started out just flat out lying to people - I don't care how much he wanted to be with Eve, who was dull too.
Not as good as I remember it being when I read it over ten years ago when I was fifteen. The main character, who was somewhat of an egotistical extrovert, kind of got on my nerve.
