https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10836641
Great Book that analyse the need and justification of war. A dialog between Yudhistir and Bhishma after the battle of Mahabharat was over. The victorious Yudhistir repenting the unjust actions in warजहाँ छल से छदम से गिराय गय वरनय वीर आपसे, अभिमनयू वध, दुरयोधन वध, हाय हम में बचा यहाँ कौन किस पाप से ? (In this war respected warrior like you have been put out by wrong means. Where both parties killed others eg Abhimanyu and Duryodhana by following unethical practices, all of us equal sinners)And B
Great Book that analyse the need and justification of war.
The victorious Yudhistir repenting the unjust actions in warजहाँ छल से छद्म से गिराय गय वरन्य वीर आपसे, अभिमन्यू वध, दुर्योधन वध, हाय हम में बचा यहाँ कौन किस पाप से ?
Where both parties killed others eg Abhimanyu and Duryodhana by following unethical practices, all of us equal sinners)And Bhishma tries to justify the actions:पापी कौन?
मनुष्य से उसका न्याय चुराने वाले ?
या न्याय खोजता विघ्न का शीश उड़ाने वाला?
Or he who destroys obstacles between him and the justice?)Dinkar ji had rare courage to openly endorse the use of power over the philosophy "...
To forgive you need power)
The book focuses on 'Shanti Parv' of The Mahabharat , where Yudhisthir talks with Bheeshm about peace .
The peace which was created by the endless pile of corpses .
A peace which is haunting .The book was written when the Second World War was just over and a seme kind of peace was prevailing .
The author questions that is war the only resort to restore peace ?
Is the peace created by war the same peace for which war was started ?
With some memorable quotes and undoubtedly wonderful writing yet the books slightly fails to match the sheer excellence of Dinkarji's best work - 'Rashmirathi' .
Caution :: Reader should be an expert in HindiThen only he/she can enjoy the book
Epic Description of Mahabharata. Great read, swift poetic flow, and a natural pace.
"Kshama shobhti us bhujung kojiske paas garal ho, usko kya jo danheen, vish-rahit, vineet, saral ho"No doubt, it is an exceptional book written by author, national poet of India, Ramdhaari Singh "Dinkar".
It tells you about the stuffs bhishma said to yudhistir after the Mahabharata ended and when dharmraj refused to take up the throne as he thinks it is useless to rule the kingdom of dead bodies.
Bhishma then explained him the duties of the king.Whats good?1.
use of words in rhyming3.
explains the dilemma of human mind and his conscienceWhats bad?1.
hindi words can be really tough sometimes to understand.
I haven't read much poetry, but Dinkar's simple poetry talks about today's scenario in simple words though it talks from the stage of Kurukshetra. The last parts where Bhishm talks to Arjun about how he should not go for Sanyaas and instead do what he is supposed to do, are really good.
I expected something like rashimrathi but in vain.
I have published the review on - http://ajitabhpandey.info/2015/07/kurukshetra-by-ramdhari-singh-dinkar/
Good one After Rashmirathi .
One of the best books ever read. this prosaic composition by dinkar conveyes some powerful opinions on peaces. taking protagonists from mythology he expresses himself in best possible way.
You'll have to recite it to get the essence of this marvelous piece of poetry.
I had to read this multiple times to better understand this beautiful philosophical poetry.
Perhaps this was because I haven't read a hindi book in a long time and have lost touch with a language I grew up speaking.
Anyway, this poem touched on two of my favourite topics - Mahabharata and philosophy of life.
Dinkar was a true socialist like most people of his time and through the dialogue between Bhishma and Yudhishtra, he explores the relevance of wars and what humans should aspire for.
Dinkar is not afraid to explore the dilemmas of human mind and adeptly provides answers in the course of the poem.
In all honesty, I am not qualified to rate this book.
Despite being a native Hindi speaker, I found the vocabulary to be very difficult.
To give some context, I have read a few works of Premchand and I am pretty comfortable with the language.
I could not understand the meaning of much of the text and hence could not fully appreciate it.
In the end I got the gist but would have loved to appreciate the choice of words as well.
I give this book 3 stars but that could be due to my own shortcoming not of the author.
I was blown away by the prose that Dinkar Saab has imagined and put on paperNow I get the point why we were force fed Dinkar in 10th Grade, but Dinkar can hardly make sense at that ageYou have to have lived a life, have had losses and wins, to truly appreciate DinkarHighly Recommended!!!
Some of my favorite stanzas are from this book. कषमा शोभती उस भुजंग को, जिसके पास गरल हो।उसको कया, जो दनतहीन, विषरहित, विनीत, सरल हो?सहनशीलता, कषमा, दया को तभी पूजता जग है,बल का दरप चमकता उसके पीछे जब जगमग है।
Some of my favorite stanzas are from this book. क्षमा शोभती उस भुजंग को, जिसके पास गरल हो।उसको क्या, जो दन्तहीन, विषरहित, विनीत, सरल हो?सहनशीलता, क्षमा, दया को तभी पूजता जग है,बल का दर्प चमकता उसके पीछे जब जगमग है।
Just another marvel by Dinkar
Review to come !
"vah kaun rota hai vahan itihas ke adhyaaya parjis mein likhaa hai naujavaano ke lahoo kaa mol hai...." A poem which starts with these lines and goes on to ask and answer more questions -"pratyaya kisi boodhey kutil neetigya ke vyaahaar kajiska hradaya utna malin ki sheersh jitna valaksh hai;jo aap to ladataa naheen katvaa kishoron ko magar,aashwast hokar sochataa ......shonit bahaa leykin gayee bach laaj saarey desh ki"The beauty of the language, expressed with such mastery. Always will keep revisiting.
Epic and amazing
The national poet of India, Dinkar questions the futility of war in this epic poem.
Yudhisthir, the eldest Pandav, after winnig the great war against his cousins, Kauravs, stands at the battlefield and feels nothig but despair.
Still, he helps Yudhisthir understand the necessity of war.Dinkar has tried to put forward all sides of the epic battle and through it, his own predicaments regarding wars in current scenario.
He concludes on a sobering note that things can change, war can be stopped if only we, the humans, every single of us, care to look inside.
"मही नहीं जीवित है मिटटी से डरने वालों से,जीवित है वह उसे फूँक सोना करने वालों से ।जवलित देख पंचअगनि जगत से निकल भागता योगी । धूनी बनाकर उसे तापता अनासकत रसभोगी । रशमि-देश की राह यहाँ तम से होकर जाती है,उषा रोज रजनी के सिर पर चढ़ी हुई आती है । और कौन है, पड़ा नहीं जो कभी पाप-कारा में ?किसके बसन नहीं भींगे बैतरणी की धारा में?******************************************** परकृति नहीं डर कर झुकती है कभी भागय के बल से,सदा हारती वह मनुषय के उददयम से ; शरमजल से । बरहमा का अभिलेख पढ़ा करते निरुदयमी पराणी,धो
"मही नहीं जीवित है मिट्टी से डरने वालों से,जीवित है वह उसे फूँक सोना करने वालों से ।ज्वलित देख पंचअग
