https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32191710-astrophysics-for-people-in-a-hurry
Nothing like an astrophysics book for beginners to remind me why I’m not an astrophysicist!
It reminded me of a fake headline on The Onion news satire site that made me chuckle: Obama Reassures Americans: ‘The future, and I’m talking three billion years from now, is still bright.”The amount we don’t know about the universe is staggering.
But also, how amazing is it that we can find this stuff out from our little speck of a planet in the suburbs of Nowheresville, Milky Way Galaxy?
If you would like your mind exploded by science, and get a few chuckles out of the deal, check it out!
Imagine you are standing with your face up and your mouth wide open underneath a waterfall of Skittles.
At first, a few Skittles get into your mouth and you can taste them.
I love Skittles.Then, the Skittles become overwhelming, as more and more try to force themselves in, and millions and millions puddle around your feet, piling up past your knees.That's kind of how this was.I'm all about learning new things, but there were SO MANY FACTS IN SUCH A SMALL SPAN.
Alas, I just felt overwhelmed.I recommend this book, but read it slowly and in small sittings.
We are stardust brought to life, then empowered by the universe to figure itself out—and we have only just begun.  Neil deGrasse Tyson, within 224 pages, attempts to cover the entirety space and time. He does a pretty good job.  However,  this is not  Astrophysics for Dummies. There are assumptions made for the audience - you do need a bit of a working knowledge on particles and space to fully understand the significance of the text. That being said, I could still (mostly) follow along even in
Neil deGrasse Tyson, within 224 pages, attempts to cover the entirety space and time.
Like Bryson, Neil deGrasse Tyson provides great analogies when he explains the creation (and subsequent formation) of the universe.
If we combine both books, it feels like we get a Short History of Everything.However...he does waste page space needling his audience about religion, which I could've definitely done without in such a compact book.
(It felt rather distasteful).I really liked how Tyson could break down complex topics.
Astrophysics for People with Time on their Hands
The universe is under no obligation to make sense to you.
Just spend a half a day with this book, time you spend, reading or listening won't be wasted.From the big bang 14 billion years ago, to today. Milky way was formed 9 billion years ago, how it was named? How the planes and asteroids was named? How we fit in the universe, or the universe within us? Kuiper belt and Pluto, and wonder are we all Martians.
Most people exist in a sphere that is directly impacted by the work of physicists, but only possess a minimal knowledge of some basic Newtonian physics.
But even with this gap of knowledge, a few physicists rise to the level of rockstars.
Neil deGrasse Tyson is almost as much a translator of physics as an astrophysicist in his own right.
He is funny, cheeky, and cognecent that the average reader isn't going to read a 500+ page book on physics (no matter how interesting).
Dr. Tyson = Education^3
I think it's pretty self explanatory what this book is about so no need to summarize.
I have to say though that I'm generally not a fan of Neil deGrasse Tyson, because a lot of times he'll just indulge the actual stupid things other people say.
Every time this happens I can't find any actually science news in my newsfeeds because now suddenly everyone is only talking about that one dumb thing.
Regardless of my general feelings of irritation whenever I see Neil deGrasse Tyson talking about pop science things I think this books was pretty awesome.
I borrowed this book through kindle unlimited. It is an excellent astrophysics book for the layperson.However, it is chock full of scientific information about the universe, electrons, neutrinos, etcetera.A solid 4 stars.
Neil deGrasse Tyson has the gift of helping non-geniuses get a slight clue on what those geniuses are talking about.
Slight.Don't even think you can sit down and read this baby in a night.
It is definitely a read-a-chapter/think-for-a-bit kind of book.
I read a chapter after each fiction book I was reading, and then I would talk about it with my genius son who somehow understands all this stuff.
Little bastard!Anyway, like all geniuses, Neil deGrasse Tyson can only dumb stuff down so much, so there are quite a bit of mathmatical and scientific terms in the book that he assumes we can understand.
Astrophysics for People in a Hurry is a very readable account of the creation of the universe and how the universe works, as related by Neil deGrasse Tyson.I had this on my watch list for a long time but didn't pull the trigger until it went on sale for $1.99.Since the first movie I saw in the theater was a rerelease of Star Wars sometime in the early 80s, space has always given me a sense of wonder.
Astrophysics for People in a Hurry is an easily digestible summation of the universe, from the big bang to the present.Neil deGrasse Tyson breaks down the universe into manageable chunks, from leptons to galaxies.
And even if it only serves to make someone infect their children with a natural thirst for knowledge, it's worth it (when I look around day after day, I see enough people who enjoy sticking their heads in the sand because it's easier to let others do the work for them).Admittedly, even I (very interested in all sciences and reading a lot about different fields) only know half-truths because some things are too difficult to understand by simply reading about them.
He knows what he's talking about.The fact that he's a funny guy who can break down the most complex things into an interesting narrative is an added bonus!This book then is his introduction to the topic of astrophysics.
3.5 StarsThis rating may be more reflective of my personal tastes than the book itself, as this is definitely about large-scale, broad-spectrum science.
My interests always veer towards understanding people and the world around me, less than wondering about our beginnings or the scope of the cosmos.
But, this book does a really great job of presenting the material from a grounded, real-world approach.
Spooky and all types of interesting.At the end of the day, I can't rate this any-higher, because I still zoned out more often than I want to admit.
“Ray, pretend for a moment that I don't know anything about metallurgy, engineering, or physics, and just tell me what the hell is going on.” – Dr. Peter VenkmanAs a matter of fact, Ray, I DID study, though it was more than 20 years ago, so it’s entirely possible I’ve forgotten a thing or two…so you can suck it.
Do you need to have some basic grounding in physics to understand and appreciate it?
Yes. If you have some basic grounding in physics, will you still be totally overwhelmed and perplexed by some of the ideas it presents?
Science was bit basic for me as I posses some knowledge of the subject but it's perfect gift for my nephew who has shown interest and keeps asking me to explain this stuff to him.
Neil deGrasse Tyson is great with words and simple explanations of complicated things.
That in combination with very short length makes this book perfect if you are trying to set child onto the righteous path of nerd or trying to convert an adult.Also I plan to get it as hardcopy for my nephew but I listened to audiobook version and Tyson's narration is just marvelous.
Everything is explained theoretically and clarified as that.I love reading about science facts and that's what I expected but the subject is astrophysics which is defined as:"the branch of astronomy concerned with the physical nature of stars and other celestial bodies, and the application of the laws and theories of physics to the interpretation of astronomical observations." (source)So clearly I didn't have an idea of what I was getting into.
Neil deGrasse Tyson does an excellent job of explaining these complex ideas and putting it in simple, understandable terms.
What a fun science book!I have always been a science nut and had to get this book! The library was backed up so I know I wasn't the only one. I truly love the way he teaches the reader science on the reader's level without talking down to us. So many fun, witty remarks that stick the info in your head helps. He makes science fun! No wonder the kids these days know him, besides the fact he 'killed Pluto'. LOL. Wonderful book and I learned and laughed.
But I like astrophysics, the parts I can grasp, and have an admiration for people who can grasp the science and math and concepts enough to push our understanding forward.This is a short book, and I will recommend the audio read by the author.
He is very passionate and exuberant about his topics, and it still came across a bit sped up (which I felt it needed.) The different chapters are sometimes previous essays, compiled into this layman's overview of astrophysics - intentionally short, concepts boiled down to the core of where our understanding started, what we know now, and what we do not know.
Nevertheless, Neil deGrasse Tyson has an amazing ability to make the cosmos fun and understandable.
I loved the facts he is an expert with, but I could do without the politics and social theory about which, in my opinion, he has no special knowledge to share.
All the more amazing since some of these discoveries took place over 300 years ago.
For some, this may not be the best gateway book if you’re trying to have a better grasp on Astrophysics, but I think this is a lovely addendum for folks that have watched Tyson’s "Cosmos" TV series.
Actually, if you're in a hurry to understand astrophysics, might want give that pipe dream up.
Although this book is a brilliant and well written group of essays by one of the greatest minds of our time, it is not a quick read.
I'll grant ya that it's not a huge tome, but the amount of info on every page is amazing.
I often had to put it down and let just a few lines sink in.
If you truly want to grasp even just the edges of astrophysics you won't read this book in a hurry.
You will take the time to savor every sentence.
Debris around some stars merged to form planets, and Earth formed in a 'Goldilocks' zone where oceans remain liquid.....allowing life as we know it to develop.*****After Sir Isaac Newton determined the laws of gravity, scientists discovered that physical forces are uniform throughout the universe.
Sagan used to awe us with this stuff, but deGrasse Tyson makes it easy to feel like a nerd, by oversimplifying concepts and letting some of his smooth arrogance pass onto the reader.But, there are always enough nuggets to keep your true inner nerd interested: Like when he explains how Quarks have fractional charges that come in thirds, and that the force that keeps two or more of them together actually grows stronger the more you separate them...
Especially, when the arrogance arising from the backing of science and its capabilities are laced with just the right dose of Sagan-like, pale-blue-dot-like humility about how the arrow of knowledge always gives us humans a smaller and smaller role in the universe.
Neil deGrasse Tyson is one of the most remarkable scientists of our time, having devoted a large part of his work to popularise his field of study, astrophysics, sometimes one of the most counterintuitive sciences of all.
He also is an expert in the history of physics and, while covering contemporary subjects (one of his favourites being dark matter and dark energy), he manages to drop a few facts about Isaac Newton, Michael Faraday or Albert Einstein.I remember reading other books written by astrophysicists, like Carl Sagan’s Cosmos, Stephen Hawking’s A Brief History of Time, Trinh Xuan Thuan’s The Secret Melody or Hubert Reeves’ Patience dans l'azur.
It was interesting and full of information about the universe. A few chapters go into more detail than others and I didn't "get" everything, science wise. But I did get a few good ideas for stories!
I have always been more of a words person than a numbers person.
I stopped enjoying science in school when numbers got involved, somewhere around Honors Chemistry.
Written in an engaging, approachable style, Astrophysics for People in a Hurry has reignited my interest in science, particularly in astronomy.
I learned a lot, only by rereading passages several times and then putting the book down to think for a few minutes before continuing, but mostly I came away with a sense of amazement and humility in the face of the universe and the people so much smarter than me that study it.The last thirty pages were so profound, just so shockingly profound and inspiring, that I actually feel differently about the world and my place in it.
I guess I’m not in that much of a hurry! Or I’m just not very bright. This book is not accessible for the average person, in a hurry or otherwise. I was lost really early on and trust me, things didn’t get clearer with time. It felt like a convoluted textbook to me. I will accept all the blame for my totally honest take on this book: I hated it. My biggest takeaway was that I’m not interested in astrophysics at all...and I’m okay with that!
All right, what we have here is a failure to communicate. Say what?!I guess I should start with Astrophysics for Dummies . . . Nah, just forget it.I'm having a good laugh at my reading aspirations right now. I think I'll content myself with stargazing and wondering.I am not worthy to rate this book.
"During our brief stay on planet Earth, we owe ouselves and our descendants the opportunity to explore - in part because it's fun to do. Bu there's a far noble reason. The day our knowledge of the cosmos ceases to expand, we risk regressing to the childish view that the universe figuratively and literally revolves around us."
***I received an advance reader copy of this book from Netgalley for an honest review***I love Neil deGrasse Tyson and the way he so easily puts concepts into terms regular people can understand. I love how excited he gets about the universe. This short and simple book is a great intro to our place in the universe. Also, watch the documentary "We are Stars" at your local planetarium if you get the chance (this book and that documentary go very well together). I ❤ science!
I u drugom čitanju opet vrlo zabavna i interesantna knjiga koja na jednosatvan način pokušava da objasni puno komplikovanih pojmova i teorija. Odličan uvod u svet astrofizike.I pohvala za Jasminu Marković Karović na fino odradjenom prevodu :)
Sadly, this is just more proof that the universe doesn't revolve around me. I highly recommend the audiobook, read by Neil himself. His voice is soothing, and the astrophysics seem somehow easier to understand coming directly from him.
Neil DeGrasse Tyson, from what we already know of his excellent shows and cameos on tv, has a way of spinning massive theories into something you can understand over a cup of tea and half your attention.It is utterly amazing how the universe works - he explains something so utterly cosmic and then says 'a trillionth of a second has passed since the beginning', which is just mind blowing.It's a short book at 140 or so pages, and the chapters are short, which makes it a book you can pick up and put down when you have the mental space to breathe around it and absorb - for me, at least, with my previously mentioned lack of scientific background.
