https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12456378-who-were-the-shudras
I found it tedious to go through this work (thesis)of one of the greatest scholars India has ever produced.It is an extraordinary work by an incredible man.The way he defended his theory is simply magnificent.By going through this work one can very well conclude provided the evidences quoted in this book that there were not four varnas in the beginning but three and also the so called shudras were not the natives of India but they were also the Aryans who constituted the class Kshatriya, eliminating the long believed theory of invasion of the natives by the foreigners.It is also extremely clear that the Shudras as a result of continuous conflict with the Brahmans they were degraded paving way to the formation of the fourth varna.
Another masterpiece of scholarly work by Dr. Ambedkar. One just needs to read this to know the brilliance of Ambedkar and why he was so successful in changing the mindset of Dalits and not just their material conditions of slavery. By far the most logical explanation of the root causes of evil structure of caste and why it is not justifiable by any stretch of imagination or justification of history.
ഇനതയയിലെ ജാതിവയവസഥയുടെ ഉദഭവം, പരിണാമം എനനിവയെകകുറിചചാലോചികകുനനവര അടിസഥാനഗരനഥമായി സവീകരികകേണടതാണ ഡോ. അംബേദകറുടെ 'ശൂദരര ആരായിരുനനു?: അവര ഇനതോ ആരയന സമൂഹതതില നാലാം വരണമായതെങങനെ?' എനന കൃതി. വേദങങളും മററു പരാചീന ഇനതയൻ സാഹിതയ, തതവശാസതര കൃതികളെയും സൂകഷമമായി വിശകലനം ചെയത ഡോ. അംബേദകർ എതതിചചേരുനന പരധാന കണടെതതലുകൾ ഇവയാണ: 1 . ശൂദരർ സൂരയവംശതതിലപെടട ആരയൻ സമുദായങങളിൽ ഒനനായിരുനനു 2 . പരാചീന ആരയൻ സമൂഹതതിൽ 3 വർണങങൾ മാതരം അംഗീകരിചച ഒരു കാലം ഉണടായിരുനന .( ബരാഹമണർ, കഷതരിയർ, വൈശയർ)3 . ശൂദരർ, ആരയൻ സമൂഹതതിലെ കഷതരിയ വർണത
അംബേദ്കറുടെ 'ശൂദ്രര്‍ ആരായിരുന്നു?: അവര്‍ ഇന്തോ ആര്യന്‍ സമൂഹത്തില്‍ നാലാം വര്‍ണമായതെങ്ങനെ?' എന്ന കൃതി.
വേദങ്ങളും മറ്റു പ്രാചീന ഇന്ത്യൻ സാഹിത്യ, തത്വശാസ്ത്ര കൃതികളെയും സൂക്ഷ്മമായി വിശകലനം ചെയ്ത് ഡോ.
ശൂദ്രർ സൂര്യവംശത്തില്പെട്ട ആര്യൻ സമുദായങ്ങളിൽ ഒന്നായിരുന്നു 2 .
പ്രാചീന ആര്യൻ സമൂഹത്തിൽ 3 വർണങ്ങൾ മാത്രം അംഗീകരിച്ച ഒരു കാലം ഉണ്ടായിരുന്ന് .( ബ്രാഹ്മണർ, ക്ഷത്രിയർ, വൈശ്യർ)3 .
ശൂദ്രർ, ആര്യൻ സമൂഹത്തിലെ ക്ഷത്രിയ വർണത്തിന്റെ ഭാഗമായിരുന്നു.4 .
ശൂദ്രരായ രാജാക്കന്മാരും ബ്രാഹ്മണന്മാരും തമ്മിൽ നിരന്തരമായ പ്രശ്നങ്ങളും തീരാപ്പകയും ഉണ്ടായിരുന്നു; തൽഫലമായി, ബ്രാഹ്മണർ പീഡനങ്ങൾക്കും അപമാനങ്ങൾക്കും വിധേയരാക്കപ്പെട്ടു5 .
ബ്രാഹ്മണർക്ക് ശൂദ്രരോട് വിദേശം ജനിക്കുകയും തൽഫലമായി, ശൂദ്രരുടെ ഉപനയനം നടത്താൻ ബ്രാഹ്മണർ വിസമ്മതിച്ചു6 .
ക്ഷത്രിയരായ ശൂദ്രർ അവർക്ക് ഉപനയനം നിഷേധിക്കപ്പെട്ടതിന്റെ ഫലമായി സാമൂഹികമായി അധപതിച്ചു; അവർ നാലാം വർണമായിത്തീർന്നുഋഗ്വേദത്തിലെ പുരുഷസൂക്തത്തിന്റെ നിരൂപണത്തോടെയാണ് പ്രബന്ധം ആരംഭിക്കുന്നത്.
We live in the political/philosophical atmosphere of 'strong' arguments and opinions, and not necessarily well thought out ones.
In such a setting,Reading Ambedkar's book will surely be a breath of fresh air.
There are too many citations that one could get lost in.
But then again this is a must read for any Indian, who wants to know the thoughts of the chief architect of the Indian Constitution.P.S:Speaking of citations, I am curious what this man could have produced if he was strapped with the resources of the Internet age.
Dr Ambedkar brings in tools from sociology, anthropology, mythology, theology, economics, and historiography to raise and answer the question which constitutes the title of the book.
'The meek and non-violent looking Hindu can be violent when anybody attacks his Sacred Books' - Ambedkar, 'Who were the Shudras?'2.
'That a man thinks is a biological fact, what he thinks is a sociological fact' - Prof Thorndyke, as quoted by Dr Ambedkar in 'Who were the Shudras?'A must read for the students of social sciences and humanities!
Now I know what it feels like to read a scholarly work written by a scholar.
To say that the work is a well researched one would be a big understatement.
This book is a painstaking effort by Mr Ambedkar to portray the background, the origins of the caste system in India and the tyranny meted out to the oppressed.
The depth of research is deep to the point that reading becomes tedious.
But nevertheless, this is one of the best books I have read
a good book
Ambedkar vs brahminsAmbedkar shows no mercy on people who claim to have prove the theory of "purushasukta" and the people who preach about the "aryan invasion theory".It explains each and every aspect of the theory of why brahmins enjoys the caste system so desperately. This book as it may very difficult to go through but one can throughly understand the difficulties what babasaheb have gone through painstakingly to prove every aspect. And several aspects were marvellous..Overall a very good read..
AN HONEST ANALYSIS OF CHATURVARNA BY DR. AMBEDKARIts a much needed analysis of the Chaturvarna, its origin and its transformation into it's present day's format. Most nuetral and honest attempt to debunk the the theory of caste system. A must read of all analytical minds.
The Book is more focused on criticising Hinduism rather than talking about History/Mythology of Shudras. Personally, I don't like to read such book which spreads hate against any religion, race or community...
An extensively complex book. It Covers Vedas and other Hindu religious scriptures to postulate the origin of Shudras.
Must read ... If not for anything else, at least attempt it for seeing the clarity of thought involved.
Too technical, but seriously are we based on a religious with this much ambiguity. Also how much historical distortion been passed on which questions the religious text credibility.
However, I judge this book on completely different level than other fantasy books.
But still I would say they were not strong enough which is natural when one is assessing ancient data.I read this book to get acquainted with origins of cast system in India.
To an extent book did it, but sometimes I felt excessive references to stories in religious scriptures boring.Book does not tell complete story of cast system in India so if u want to read for that motive, I think other books from Mr. Ambedkar might throw more light on the subject.(Haven't read his other works yet)
Ambedkar shows no mercy on people who claim to prove the theory of "purushasukta" and the people who preach about the "aryan invasion theory".It explains each and every aspect of the theory of why brahmins enjoys the caste system so desperately. This book as it may very difficult to go through but one can throughly understand the difficulties what babasaheb have gone through painstakingly to prove every aspect. And several aspects were marvellous..Overall a very good read..
Not very impressive, still it throws some light into the history of pre-independant India.
Dense, but interesting thesis.
asa
