https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34301.Echoes
In Echoes Binchy proves that she truly is a master storyteller but blistering sentimentality and her penchant for verbosity turn some sections of the novel into a test of stamina.The story revolves around Clare O'Brien and David Power, the offspring of two vastly different families in the seaside town of Castlebay in the 1950s.
Of course the plot involving Clare and David is actually only one storyline in this vast 737-page novel which spans the entirety of the 50s and the early 60s in Castlebay.
Binchy held off anything resembling resolution for the main characters to the last two or three pages, and all I can say about that without spoiling it entirely is that though it was nowhere near a rainbows and unicorns ending, I didn’t throw the book across the room after all.Binchy, despite her stylistic licentiousness regarding commas and her tendency to pose questions without using a question mark (one of my pet peeves), is a fantastic storyteller.
It's not unimaginable that I've missed the point, however.All that aside, I had little trouble understanding and loving most of the characters.
Mainly that the love story of Clare and David is not given enough time to develop in comparison with the rest of the book.I'm all for falling in love fast, but their love just didn't seem real to me for most of their relationship.
My suspicions of this are given weight by how easily cheats on her with Caroline, and how little regret he feels.Clare, did eventually prove to me that she loved David, but only after she burned the pictures and was willing to forgive everything.
I wasn't left with a feeling that love conquers all, but more that stubbornness conquers all.
Imagine it's a rainy night, and you and your best friend are sitting in comfy chairs in front of a fire. Maybe you're drinking hot chocolate, laughing about something when she turns to you and says, "Did I ever tell you the story about David Power and Clare O'Brien from Catlebay?"When you say no, you both settle back and she begins to tell you the story. That's what this book feels like, and it's wonderful.Maeve Binchy is a first class story teller, and ECHOES is one of her best. If you pick it up, you will not be disappointed.
A well written family drama set in Ireland - easy reading but good stuff!
Looking at the back, I would think it was all a love story and all about Clare and David, but in the first few pages, there were so many characters in it, I couldn't tell who from who.
First 300 pages were meant to emphasize how different Clare and David were.
Maeve Binchy had to end the book with a cliffhanger.
This is actually the first Maeve Binchy book I read, and I'll probably pick not another of her works in the future.
I must have originally read this book about 25 years ago and it's one of my comfort books.
Yes, I know most people have comfort food but I have comfort books!
This book is the literary equivalent of wrapping yourself up in a warm blanket, settling yourself on an old but comfy couch and having a long gossip with a good friend.
It's heartwarming (but still gritty), the characters are multi dimensional with lots of flaws but remain engaging.
Not that it's rose tinted, there is a lot about social class divides and the ending is not a happily ever after one but it is realistic
Echoes follows their stories as they intertwine over the next decade - they all manage to break free of the paths set by their parents, but will they ever escape the echo of their past?I read Maeve Binchy for the comfort - the falling into a different pace of life, where villagers gossip to each other, and often marrying right is the only ambition a girl might have.
Do you think that woman is going to let her son, with the fine education he has, marry a girl from a shop in Castlebay?"As I said, there are very few truly likable characters - even the best of them have moments where you wish you could throw the book across the room because of their manners, or beliefs, or actions.
Excellent read about different types of people, but somewhat sad ending.I normally prefer romance novels, but this was nice for a change.
It's a story about many different people in a small town on the coast of Ireland.
Some people I loved, others I disliked.
Setting: 1950 to 1962 small coastal town in Ireland.
That was too sad for me.
I'm writing this a day later, and I'm still sad thinking about it.
Although, I am glad I read the book,and I will continue to think about some of the characters in the future.
Little by little I want to read all of Maeve Binchy's work and Echoes was the second novel she published.
Reading Binchy's work is always so restful and I can just imagine it in an Irish accent.
It also makes me want to visit and live a life in a small town....though the whole thing about everyone knowing about your business I could probably live without.I learned about Maeve Binchy's demise as I was reading this book, I was very sad, but at the same time very grateful to have her works live on.
Wat gaat dit ontzettend traag vooruit. Ik had mezelf voorgenomen dit jaar af te wijken van mijn lievelingsgenre, maar makkelijk is het niet. Het boek op zich is niet eens slecht te noemen en ik wil ook wel weten hoe het eindigt, maar toch .... Ik kijk uit naar het einde!
I've been disappointed by some Binchys in the past, but this one, I loved.There are for sure frustrating things about it, but I think they only add to the realism of the whole feel of this story.
This is 1950s/1960s Ireland, and I think the ending is in perfect alignment with the mentality of the time and place.
But it's mostly frustrating that she was more than likely dead on in her anticipation of the town's reaction to the news.
Despite its absurdities, I love stories from that period in Ireland, and I feel like these characters so perfectly illustrated it over the course of their lives.
You will also likely find yourself genuinely caring about the people who you will spend years getting to know—years of their lives, not years spent reading this book : ) —and hoping that they eventually get what they deserve: good or bad.
The first was a history of Ireland and both that book (Ireland: A Novel by Frank Delaney—also very good!) and this one spent a great deal of time pondering and describing the Catholic faith and what it means to the people of Ireland.
4/2018 This must be one of the first books by Maeve Binchy that I ever read, which makes sense since it's one of the first she wrote.
I don't remember this one very well but I'm going to give a 4 star rating all the same because I've been collecting them ever since and now have most of them.5/28/2018 I based my initial 4 star rating on how I feel in general about Binchy books.
Anyway, it's a book worth reading but it's difficult.
That is true of all Binchy's books and one of the main reasons I keep reading them.
In the past, I've read and enjoyed Binchy's books, sometimes for the diversion they offered.
But I admire most her ability to capture the nuances of people, especially those who live in and/or come from small towns.
_Echoes_ offers astute characterizations, but it is not a light read.
I recommend this book because it is an unflinching tale of people in small-town Ireland in the late 1950's to early 1960's.
The characters may be exasperating, small-minded at times; but having grown up in small towns myself, their words and lives ring true to me.
I read this book when I was fifteen. I remember it was so beautiful and it clawed at my emotions. This is one of the books that stayed with me. It follows Clare from childhood to adulthood. How life doesn't always turn out like you dreamed it to be. How love often dies out along the way, no matter how perfect it seemed when it first blossomed. This is a book about the reality of love and the reality of life.
It was a desire that knew no class, no barriers, only the urgent hunger of two people destined to love and ready to defy any convention used by a world determined to keep them apart.Even at fifteen, David Power knew eleven-year-old Clare O'Brien's dearest wish, to win a school prize.
Reading Maeve Binchy's books, even rereading some of them, as this particular book Echoes was for me, is almost like returning to familiar places and visiting old but very familiar friends.
I read Echoes for the first time maybe a decade to fifteen years ago and enjoyed this book then as well.
I received Echoes from a dear friend who is a big fan of Ireland (spending several years there herself) and of Maeve Binchy.
This is the first book that I've read by the author.
To be honest, the first third of the book seemed extremely slow going to me.
I thought that the character backgrounds that Binchy plotted out were extremely vast and overdone.
I'd already developed emotions and opinions about every character, and Binchy really has a way with using a plot to play on those emotions and question your loyalty to those characters.
Definitely would recommend and I look forward to reading more of Binchy's work.
This story focuses on 3 characters: Angela O'Hara, a spinster teacher caring for her invalid mother; David Powers, the only son of the town's doctor and his unhappy wife; and Clare O'Brien, the intelligent, ambitious daughter of a shopkeeper.
David becomes a doctor.
Angela finds happiness, after years of trouble and care.
The ending is bittersweet, and I think came too quickly.
After the years of build-up of the relationship between David and Clare, I felt that the denouement deserved the same amount of attention.
I wasn't totally satisfied with the ending either, but it was realistic.
Well, I always enjoy Binchy books and was not disappointed by this one.
Three main characters, all likable, all multi-dimensional and of course their lives are entwined as in all Binchy stories.
It was a definitely a blast from the past going back to pre-Vatican (for non-Catholics) late 50's and 60's It seemed a bit foreign as so many social mores, rights and wrongs and proper/improper have drastically changed.
Watching the characters struggling with "bucking the system" or accepting and respecting it brought back memories that I thought were long forgotten.
It truly is a different world we live in now...for better or worse.Another great read by Binchy.
She is a great storyteller.
As good as any Maeve Binchy I've read, with her characterizations of good and caring people, none of them perfect but all trying to make the best of the life handed them. This book is a bit longer than most and a bit more tension than usual. It opens with a prologue which has the towns people finding a body on the beach. Whose body is it - murder, accident, suicide - and who will care deeply when all is said and done?
I adore Maeve Binchy's books, but this one just didn't register with me. I didn't care for, or really believe the 'grand romance' between Clare and David. She deserved so much better than a man who cheated on her when things got rough. I hated that she lost her career and passion and wasted all her education. I loved Angela and Dick and would have enjoyed more of their story.
This was the first one I ever read. And so began a long devotion to Maeve Binchy. She writes such wonderful stories. Whenever I'm tired, or fussed, or stressed, these are the books I come back to time and time again. Cannot tell you how many times I have read these books. Like sinking into a hot, deep bath, or a great big cuddle. Bliss ...
I liked the book for the most part. I liked the story of Claire and David in Dublin. Once they returned to Castlebay and Claire had the baby it lost me a bit. I was really disappointed in Claire. I think she should have dumped him but I guess in the 60s it was not as easy. I actually felt sorry for creepy stalker Gerry. I am not sure if I should have felt that way but I think he would have at least valued Claire, which is more than I could say for David.
Oh, great day!This book started out FANTASTIC!
I was back to the Maeve Binchy I loved.The last 50 pages has Clare giving up all the world has given her to have a baby and be a wife and mother.
Yes, commendable to someone who wants that from the start, not what she wanted.
Then her husband has an affair and she's totally ok with it.
Ok, so Women are just supposed to stay stupid and let their husband sleep around on them and quit college and have babies.
Great message.Book also ends at a funeral.
I had the sense throughout this book that I had read it before, but I could never grasp a part that confirmed that feeling.
I don't think this is one of Binchy's best.
I had high hopes that the ending would bring it all together and was sorely disappointed.
I love Maeve Binchy's books and can't understand the problem with this one.
Was it a really true version of what happens in life or did the author just want to finish the book without figuring out how to really end it?September 2014: available at SFPL on audio
I do enjoy a Binchy read.
I lived in Kinsale in Co Cork for a bit and like the Irishness of her books (is that a word).
It makes for an OK weekend read.
It was a bit slow going in the beginning (like the first 250 pages...) and then you find out David the doctor/husband is a total philandering jerk and ol' Clare turns into a simpering depressed mom- jeez come on.
If I want reality I can talk to my neighbors.
Maybe there'll be a sequell where they find a pot of gold and open a bread and breakfast....
I love ready Binchy....I first fell in love with her style with Tara Road.....than of course, Quintens.....Echoes is an earlier book but I never got around to reading it,.,until now.
I fell in love with the whole little town.
My favorite character should have been Clare but she is just too much for me...I liked Paddy...the town doc...he was just so down to earth and nothing seemed to phase him.
A great read...especially in summer at the pool.
I plan on picking another one of her books as my next read.
I guess I plan on keeping my summer reading light....
I've really come to appreciate Binchy.
She can write about really tragic things so beautifully.
This one was a bit of a meandering tale, but I enjoyed the characters and how they grew.
In some ways, she puts a pretty gauze over all things Irish; the week I read this, the story of the 800 children in a cess pit came out.
But, I suppose one could argue taht the kinds of thigs she writes about also happened: the gentler side of Ireland.
I was so sad for Clare, and how her pregnancy completely ruined her dreams.
No dual career in those days!
Enjoyed reading Echoes but found parts frustrating where there was lots of build up to events like Sean arriving back in Castlebay and then hardly a mention of him after his return. I also found the ending rushed and wrapped up quickly after a long journey with the characters which was a little disappointing.
