https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154795.The_Death_of_Superman
The Earth's Greatest Hero has fallen...  WHICH IS THE MONSTER THAT EVERY COMIC BOOK TITLE FEARS??? There is a monster even more terrifying and powerful than Doomsday that inflicts fear into the heart of any comic book title... The Low Sales' Monster!The four Superman titles selling at that time were suffering low sales, and the editorial team thought that if "nobody" was reading them, then it was better to kill off the character.This is something hardly new in the business.The Batman titles, ba
The Low Sales' Monster!The four Superman titles selling at that time were suffering low sales, and the editorial team thought that if "nobody" was reading them, then it was better to kill off the character.This is something hardly new in the business.The Batman titles, back in the 60's, were suffering low sales too and believe it or not, the campy TV show of Batman saved of the cancellation to the comic book titles.
I'm pretty sure it was Jesus who did it first successfully.Anyways, now It's Superman's turn to fly through the cycle of death and resurrection, and it all begins here.
He is going to kill Superman to boost sales.
The good news is that Justice League is here to stop the Doomsday.
We witness an astonished Superman as he falls and fails to stop the monster in his first attempt.
But fear not, the rest of the story is filled with Superman's attempts to stop Doomsday...
I'm telling you, there is enough content in that story to turn Death of Superman into a documentary!
What the hell does that have to do with Doomsday?Then Doomsday starts his warpath in Ohio, and the 90s Justice League International (yeah I had to look that up) is called in, including Booster Gold, Maxima, Bloodwynd, Fire, Ice, Blue Beetle, and Guy Gardner.
I have only heard of Booster Gold, Blue Beetle, and Guy Gardner, but it makes no difference because this is not the A Team.
That's fast, but I'm pretty sure Flash has him beat by running, you know, the god damn speed of light, through time, through fucking dimensions.
It's no wonder that this is the best selling comic book of all time.
Forget all the psychological nuance of Frank Miller's "Dark Knight" comics, Superman is GOOD and that's all you need to know.
Why does he want to kill Superman?
And finally, a DC comic that ignores the so called "favorite" characters (like Batman and the Green Lantern) in favor of the second stringers we all really love.
And I can't believe it took them over 50 years to draw a comic book without panels.
If you read one comic book in your entire life, make it this one!
Forget that post-Death of Superman we learn more about his “character”; in this book we know nothing about him besides the fact that he’s a monster who’s been imprisoned beneath the Earth for some reason, is now free for some reason and causing havoc because that’s what he does.
It’s hardly a noble legacy to have but that’s Death of Superman for you: a cold cash grab.As I said, if you already know Doomsday kills Superman in Death of Superman, you really don’t need to read the actual book itself as doing so doesn’t add anything further to that knowledge.
Other JLA superheroes try to stop it but even as a group they are no match.
Then Superman joins one JLA group and after they are defeated he's the only one left standing.See Lois Lane with red hair.
Watch Superman give his all against an impossible foe.
See other JLA member get “pwned” even if they're third tiered superheroes.
(view spoiler)[I'm sure this was probably big back in the early 90s but killing superheroes is never taken seriously these days because they always bring them back.

Before that we had a lot of "My Golly G we gotta stop the bad guys!" and "Holy Molley geez what we gonna do?" Instead of them actually SPEAKING like NORMAL people.
Then the JLA comes over and is like "Hey, buddy, we gonna stop you!" not actual dialog, but pretty close.
What I liked: Doomsday slapping around the JLA is pretty fun actually.
Just watching all the heroes getting beat to the ground while trying their best is kind of terrifying and fun to watch.
Doomsday comes down to earth, beats people up, kills superman.
It was ok but I wasn't thrilled.I was shocked to see that Lex Luthor had been killed off a while ago (I have no clue how) and his son was now in charge of LexCorp or LuthorCorp (they have both in Smallville lolz) and had a massive mane of red locks (I thought maybe Lex stumbled upon Rogaine at first.
(hide spoiler)] It wasn't like Superman was pounded to hamburger meat.
(I'm odd)After reading the comic I started to wonder how they would have done Superman's death today.
This book made me cry for days after I read it. Heroes are not supposed to die!

That being said, DC Comics ultimately packaged and sold this multi-part story as a single work, which is how I encountered it this weekend.
But this is actually a high action, multi-part story originally told in monthly comic book form.
They may have supplied a proper aftermath in the monthly single magazine format, but not in the graphic novel form in which this story now exists.
Like I indicated earlier, The Death of Superman is all setup and execution of a single story beat.
Superman has always been a messiah story, rightfully so.
Most comic book fans know the story.
And if you think this is the low of comic book marketing, remember Marvel recently offered comic book retailers limited edition comics if they agreed to destroy DC's universe reboot comics.
"Egads" was replaced by "shit!" This comic wasn't just the death of Superman, it was the death of mainstream comic books as we knew it.
And after this run, I never picked up another issue of Superman again until Red Son, which I read about a year ago.For all of these reasons, and despite the bad, I loved this book.
(hide spoiler)]La historia, aunque debería ser emotiva y deberíamos temer a Doomsday (quien, por cierto, es uno de mis villanos favoritos de DC) algo falta, los miembros de la Liga de la justicia pareciera que están de adorno y Superman, aunque de verdad se enoja MUCHO, me sigue pareciendo unidimensional y como que su personalidad es plana (no me maten), Lois está ahí sólo para que Superman la salve (o eso me pareció)...Las últimas como 50 páginas, que es donde Superman esta cara a cara con Doomsday son las más entretenidas, especialmente por el dibujo que es realmente genial(de las pocas veces que me ha tocado ver al hijo prodigo de Kripton mostrar furia y verse realmente macabro).
The story here is simple: This crazy strong evil monster who's REALLY REALLY ANGRY arises from somewhere and beats up the Justice League, beats up America, and then beats up Superman until they both die.
And the best death story they can give him is "a big monster punched him really hard"?!?And Lex Luthor's like: "Punching him!
(I'm not sure what was up with that.) And then Superman fights again.The monster's origin and motivation are apparently not important because they got left out of the story.
A big mean evil strong thing with stalagmite acne.Yes, Superman fights with everything he has to save Metropolis.
That bubble busted eventually, driving the entire comic industry to its knees.Superman returned in another crossover event, but it proved that DC Comics was willing to gamble on such a risky gambit.
At that time, Superman and other DC titles, also Marvel Comics; was losing ground to the upstart Image Comics which emphasized style over substance with their big guns, T & A and chromium covers.
Looking back, such a stunt was necessary to jumpstart interest in the character.As for these collected comics, they were pretty standard, featuring bland DC art of the art, as the best artists were on Image or Marvel.
I can't imagine how big this must have been in the comic world back in the early 90's. I can slightly remember it being a huge deal but back then I wasn't reading comics. I am a Doomsday fanboy. I loved him in the Smallville TV show, in the new Rebirth Action Comics, and now in the original story. Anyway, I loved this, and definitely need this for my collection. Some great art and really solid writing at times.
Doomsday is coming...Doomsday is here!Stands the rest of time.Much of the art is just full of emotion and the stakes of the story keep make it a very action packed, fast paced read.
Superman was the small boy's hero...as a kid I tied a towel around my neck and jumped off the porch.
For my 4yh birthday I got a "Superman suit".And I watched the Superman TV series with George Reeves.So of the DC heroes Superman is the one I like.
The Marvel hero I like(d) is(was) Captain America, so i can't help but compare the Death of Superman book with the death of Captain America books.I have to say that I've been disappointed in the way Captain America has been handled.
So, good story only fair art.Recommended as a graphic novel.
SPOILERS FOR THIS BOOK AND FOR BATMAN V SUPERMAN!Re-Read 2016 This is one of the best superman stories ever!
One compliant of this story is that there's not much story, mostly correct, but Its not really suppose to, its a story of Doomsday, a creature so powerful that no one but superman could stop him, and Superman risks his life, to the very end to keep Metropolis safe!
Death of superman saga is still great to this day and i think its worth not only a read, but should on everyone's top 10 graphic novels at least!
Obviously, Superman dies here. But how? Even without reading this book, you'd certainly know that the Man of Steel would die getting beat up by an outrageously strong villain because Supes dying by flying a bomb away from earth seems to be less climatic. The Death of Superman is a compilation of devastation, earth-shattering punches, and deaths. Some of the issues are a struggle to read but the last one's a visual treat - Doomsday and Superman is giving each other hell! And for us that's colorful spreads all the way to the last page.
It's amazing how something so important in the world of comics is kinda... ehhh to read. I mean, the final issue has impact, but before that there's not a lot going on other than senseless punching and destruction. Any sort of actual story would have made a lot of difference. Oh, and Superman is hecka concerned about doing damage to the city and stuff, unlike some OTHER incarnations we've seen. *cough* Snyder *cough*
I thought it was pretty weak. I might have liked it better if I'd been keeping up with reading comics but it's been a long time, and this sort of reminded me of why I don't read them much. The action parts were OK. But not much in the way of any kind of deeper story or justification for what was happening.
The first of many "deaths" of DC characters to boost sales. Doomsday is just this boring unstoppable force that destroys everything in its path. He pummels the Justice League before taking on Superman. They punch each other at the same time and kill each other. The end.
Doomsday origin: Doomsday was first introduced in man of steel issue number 18 of superman man of steel.
Zods origin: He first appeared in adventure comics issue number 283 Zod was defeated by Superman and the Jor-El of Zod's alternate reality Krypton.
The third attempt to bring Zod to Modern Age comics was the "Russian" Zod, a Zod of human origin whose origin story was connected to Superman's.
Superman returned to battle Zod, but refused to kill him.Hal Jordans Origin:First appeared in showcase issue number 22 Hal Jordan is the most well-known Green Lantern.


I wanted to enjoy this book but it just seemed like non-stop action without anything else of value. As a villain Doomsday has no backstory and cannot speak. Nothing about his character is revealed other than that he is evil and likes to destroy for the fun of it. The story itself had a lot of potential but it just felt like an empty exercise in action at the expense of other necessary plot devices.
Some pretty good action here, but no real plot or character development or much of anything except a long, drawn out fight with Doomsday.
5/5 StarsToday I’m talking about a comic that was meant to be the end of Superman, but, as it’s now over 20 years down the road, we know that wasn’t the case.
So, I’m going to go a bit Lemony Snicket on you here and advise you not to read this comic if you’re expecting a happy story.
I honestly don’t really have anything bad to say about these characters.OMG, side note: Having not read a Superman comic before what’s this business that Lex Luthor has red hair and a beard?
