https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3591262-cutting-for-stone
Although I’ll admit it starts off slowly, I found that the depths of this novel are revealed as the protagonist’s life unfolds.
Their story combines elements of Indian and Ethiopian language and culture, third world medicine, sexual awakening, political revolution, foreign travel, and of course, and easily my favorite, emotional and complex family drama.
Written in a style of prose that allows one to forget the author is even there, Verghese really captures what it means to be human—that the frailty of life isn’t distinct from the strength of the spirit, but that one complements the other.
But it was only now, near the end, and far too late, that the pieces suddenly - dreadfully - clicked into place. Like a long Tetris piece slamming down, making a whole block of mystery blink and vanish. Only now did he realize what suddenly seemed so obvious: everyone who had suggested this book to him – every single one – was a middle-aged woman. This book…it was about the importance of family.A wave of cold horror washed over him. It would take months of porn and comic books to counteract this book’s effect. Months.
Many readers will tell you that Cutting for Stone is the epic story of two conjoined twins fathered by a brilliant British Surgeon and an Indian Nun. And it technically is.
More than the story being told however, the novel is an accurate portrayal of life in all it’s cruelty and wonder.
My only reservation in recommending the book is the novels “hard moments” as almost every imaginable tragedy touches these brothers, and medical operations and oddities are very detailed.
Squeamish readers may want to skim some of these passages.All in all, this novel is elegantly told, superbly structured and the most original piece of fiction I’ve read in years.
They play stereotypical roles, except for Marion’s mother, who had the potential to be very interesting as a developed character, but the author, again “uses” her as a plot device (wish not to reveal how for those who’ve not read the novel yet).
There is some good dialogue from Marion’s adopted father, Ghosh and Dr. Deepak, but not enough to save the novel.And poor Marion, remains a prisoner to a very brilliant individual as a novelist in Mr. Verghese, who tries desperately but fails to develop a nuanced protagonist--maybe the reason people wanted to put the novel down.
He asked why I'd chosen his book in the first place, and I didn't have the answer, which occurred to me (like esprit d'escalier) until after he'd left: it's not the initial choosing of a book, but the journey the author takes you on that is important.
I think that Tom Wolfe's I AM CHARLOTTE SIMMONS was the book that changed my life, because when I was about 50 pages in, I realized I couldn't and therefore wouldn't finish that book despite having purchased it in hard cover.
Life is too short, and besides, it doesn't honor an author if you are resenting him with every page just to reach the end.
Verghese takes his time setting up the story and introducing the cast of characters that will be thoroughly developed throughout the course of the novel.
It’s a book about home and belonging – both to your country and to your loved ones.
In Addis Ababa, near the soaring heights of the Entoto Mountains in Ethiopia, Marion and Shiva Stone are twin brothers born to an Indian who is both nun and nurse and a British surgeon working together within the walls of Missing, a missionary hospital.

Twin boys Shiva and Marion (*) are born in a poor 'Missing' Hospital in Ethiopia to an Indian nun (who died in childbirth status post a horrific and vividly described Cesarean section) and a socially inept but talented British surgeon (who promptly exits the twins' lives mere minutes after their birth, having almost crushed their initially conjoined heads(*) Marion is named after Marion Sims, the "father of American gynecology", who in the 19th century pioneered the operation for repair of vesicovaginal fistula (the abnormal communication between urethra and vagina with all the unpleasant and horrific consequences) - the operation that Shiva performs in this book.Marion Sims' work became a subject of much controversy in the 20th century since he practiced his craft without anesthesia on slave women, with unknown consent of his subjects on some of whom he operated about 30 times.The past of medicine is very often a very scary and cruel place.The boys are adopted and raised by an eccentric couple of Indian doctors at Missing - Hema and Ghosh, who in an adorable and sweet way 'renew' their marriage each year.
And back then, I wasn't interested in reading sad or emotional books; however, this one was quite good and I waffled between a 3 and a 4.
There are many surprises in the book, all leading you to root for certain things to happen in each of the relationships throughout the story.I had never heard of the author before, and this is the only read I've tackled by him, so far.
I'd suggest reading a lot of reviews to decide if it's for you...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]

I'm surprised at the number of people who have read the book and liked it considering the length.
So many times, in the process of trying to make realistic characters, I think authors lose sight of the fact that there are some people in this world who are truly good.
In the beginning, it seems that it is an Ethiopian term for surgery and then later in the book women needing fistula surgery carried placards reading "cutting for Stone" implying a need for Shiva Stone's medical expertise.Since I love reading about other cultures, this book enlightened me in regards to what prison is like in Ethiopia.
This had the potential to be amazing, a sweeping epic history of Ethiopia ala The Poisonwood Bible, but for all of Verghese's description, he failed to paint a powerful picture of Ethiopia.
I would much rather all that description give me something of the setting, of the characters, something powerful and enduring.
They also painted a picture of the characters.
I enjoyed Marion's relationship with Shiva and in the end that's what's fundamental to the book, their love, their distance, their painful understanding of each other.
Of all the characters, she was the least fleshed out for so long, and yet, the most important to Marion, our protagonist.
The good thing was that the book distinctly distinguished itself from a romance novel by allocating 109 pages to the birth of the twins instead of to coitus, although it did challenge my knowledge of Latin and anatomy to the extreme.
And everything pointed to a great love story in the making after all!Yes, I was equally as impressed as I was slightly blowing steam off through my nares by being constantly dropped into the world of Latin by a surgeon (Dr.Thomas Stone) whose work was his life hiding his "social retardiness" - as expressed by his colleagues.
Approval of my choice from the guy more dedicated to books than personal hygiene sealed the deal.
And I’m glad.It’s a great story and an even greater education.
The book focuses on identical twin boys, Shiva and Marion.
This came in the form of fellow doctors at the mission who adopted them.
It was good to have a narrator who was three-dimensional and imperfect (especially when it came to Genet, his fleshly idée fixe).
Besides, when I think back on what made me like this book so much, it comes down to its genuine appeal to our better angels.
In Greenwich, it was a gushing "Thanks Warren for putting this book in my hands."Anyway, this is the story of twin doctors separated at their birth in a hospital in Ethiopia.
The mother who had been an Indian nurse/nun died as a result of denying the pregnancy's existence and not getting any prenatal care.
The twins are raised by two Indian doctors who bring them up as their own children.
The mother is a very independent woman who will marry her colleague only on condition they will renew their vows every year.
The twins grow up to be a physician (what else) and a medical researcher.
FANTASTIC!!!!!!!!!!!I'm back again --(my friend Debbie told me I could 'edit' my own review')...I want to say 'something' about this book again.
Every book club in the Bay Area was reading it at one time.
The author 'always' had PACKED FULL rooms of people coming to hear him speak on this book.
(I heard him speak twice).Much could be discussed about this wonderful novel.
I've read all 3 of this authors books (the other two are 'non-fiction).
I've liked them all ---Yet--I also have a special heart for his other book called "The Tennis Player".
It has occasionally whispered my name, but I have always told it “next time.” I am so pleased that I finally broke that pattern, for this book is one of those not to be missed experiences.
Every time I thought I knew where this book was going, I got a surprise.
Dr. Ghosh is someone I will never forget--the kind of man you hope to find somewhere in your life, a person to trust, love and learn from.Cutting for Stone goes right into my favorites folder and on my keepers shelf at home.
If it is sitting on your shelf, pick it up and read it.
A deeply affecting story of life and death and the wonders of medicine. It is hard to beleive this is a work of fiction so compelling is the bond between two brothers and the extended family that colours their lives. Brimming with medical insight and vividly set in mid-century Ethiopia this tale transports you to another time and place. Family, blood, betrayal and forgiveness... Cutting for Stone is a requiem to the healing power of love.
All the stars! I loved this story!
Although the chronology of the political turmoil in Ethiopia is altered for the purposes of the story, it is evident how the populace was efected.An interesting feature is the title,  Cutting for Stone , itself.
There are references to this term in several areas of the narrative, one most clearly in the latter part of the story.
For the most part,Verghese's profession as a physician and author was well blended with his accuracy and extensive descriptions of medical conditions and procedures.
Such a great book..,
Cutting for Stone was like a challenging round of golf for me.Sorry for the analogy, but here goes for anyone who has never played the most enjoyable, yet frustrating sport ever invented.
With most sports you can have a great game, but one error can ruin your enjoyment and subsequent memory of that experience.Conversely, most of us suck big time at golf.
And it's that excitement which drives us back to the golf course to recapture those moments of elation.Cutting for Stone was a tough book for me.
Some books have a hypnotic effect and they leave you in a state of haziness when you finish them.
Cutting for Stone has been such a book for me.It is a beautiful novel because it succeeds in creating endearing personalities.
It helped to create a setting of doctors (most of the characters are, and a crucial part of the action takes place in SurgeryRoom3), and to get a glimpse of a medical mind, especially that of a surgeon’s.
For example, visiting the patient just after succesful surgery can become addictive, because of its exhilarating effect.

Sister Mary Joseph Praise is loved and respected by all, so it is beyond shocking to discover that she is with child!!Missing Hospital“What we are fighting isn't godlessness--this is the most godly country on earth.
The government/ monarch trusts no one, so life isn't always safe, even for the physicians at Missing Hospital.Dr. Thomas StoneDr. Stone is a surgeon from England.
He meets Sister Mary Joseph Praise on a ship while traveling from India to Ethiopia.
The Love Child of Dr. Thomas Stone and Sister Mary Joseph Praise is a shock to all at Missing Hospital.
I wish it were tucked away in a stack of books on my nightstand, waiting patiently for its turn to be read.
I wish I were going home tonight to curl up in a chair with nothing to do but pick up this book and slowly -- savoringly, if that's a word* -- take it in, one page at a time.
It was the first story I've read in a long time that genuinely swept me away.
It left me in tears at times, but always through the essence of the story -- never through manipulative sap.
4.5. A really wonderful story, and very moving, that will stay with me for a long time.
Abraham Verghese is an extremely gifted story teller, weaving his story of co-joined twins born to an Indian nun in Ethiopia with intricacy.
Readers who like a strong medical story should love Cutting for Stone as the descriptions of surgery and procedure are interesting and believable.
But the strongest appeal for me is the development of the characters, not only Marion/Shiva but of all the players that make this story jump off the pages.
Verghese is also strong in description and the book itself comes in at 534 pages.
Each year a group of librarians and library staff vote for their favorite books.
This is the story of Marion Stone and follows his life from before his birth through adulthood.
The secondary characters were ones I loved.
He believed in love, laughter and legacy.“I spent as much time as I could with Ghosh.
But a few lucky men like Ghosh never have such worries; there was no restitution he needed to make, no moment he failed to seize.Now and then Ghosh would grin and wink at me across the room.
So many wonderful thoughts came from these characters.
I believe I will think of this story for a long time to come.
In fact, it’s the medicine that kept me reading when at one point I wanted to put this book down.The story starts in Ethiopia in the late 1950’s (?) with the birth of twin boys to a nursing nun, Sister Mary Praise Joseph, in a small hospital on the outskirts of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; an event which no one had expected.
