https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9598.Deadeye_Dick
If I aimed at nothing, then nothing is what I would hit.”―Kurt Vonnegut, Deadeye DickThis is one of those Vonnegut novels, I'll probably hold off giving to my son to read.
Once when I was young, and I said something cynical and sarcastic in front of my father, he rebuked me and said, "Son, leave sarcasm, cynicism, and Depend® undergarments to men above the age of 50.
You often forget that there is an actual 1000 foot canyon beneath Vonnegut as his prose dances on the line of absurdism, death, and inhumanity.
In this novel, you don't forget.
This is satire at its blackest. Deadeye Dick might be the angriest of Vonnegut's books: nuclear weapons, small-town life, hopeless parents and marriages, drug addiction, warped governments, racism, police brutality and gun laws. It's all here in this mulligan stew of righteous indignation.Brilliant. A real tour de force of grumpy trouble-making.
Amid a true Vonnegutian host of horrors—a double murder, a fatal dose of radioactivity, a decapitation, an annihilation of a city by a neutron bomb—Rudy Waltz, aka Deadeye Dick, takes us along on a zany search for absolution and happiness.
The recipes, who expected those?St Elmo's recipe: a mixture of grain alcohol, opium, and cocaine, it won't hurt you unless you stop taking it.CR Deadeye Dick3* Slaughterhouse-Five4* Cat's Cradle5* Mother Night3* GalápagosTR A Man Without a CountryTR Bluebeard4* 	God Bless You, Dr. Kevorkian TR 	Palm Sunday: An Autobiographical Collage 3* Report on the Barnhouse Effect3* Thanasphere
Apart from a neutron bomb at the end (which is a very real weapon), the book was largely mundane.
Vonnegut has shown us the portrait of Midland City, in crystal clear 3D imaging.
The main characters in this book all come from this negligible point on the map, and they all share in common key events: the local production of a Broadway flop, the worst blizzard of 1960, the double murder of an innocent mother and her unborn child, the senior prom of a certain Felix Waltz, and the atomic destruction of every life within city limits.
These events may seem chaotically assembled, with no clear pattern between them.

Oko sokolovo (Deadeye Dick) jedan je pravi vašar sjebanosti.
Mislim da je to sintagma koja će mi definitivno biti dugo prva asocijacija na ovu knjigu.
Dobar vašar, naravno.
A zašto?
Evo samo nekih stvari koje su stale u priču o jednoj porodici u jednom gradiću i nekim osoba koje su na ovaj ili onaj način dovedene s njima u ovakvu ili onakvu vezu: nezdravi porodični odnosi, posljedice (nuklearnog) naoružanja, amfetamini, konzumerizam, rasizam, životinjska priroda čovjeka, nasilje, ratovanje...
A sve prikazano tako da vas nerijetko tjera da se smijete stepenu apsurdnosti, ali pri tome osjećate grč, jer znate da je taj humor proistekao iz nevjerovatno razgranate ljudske sjebanosti.
What I take from reading this great book is that if you don't participate in the 'writing of your personal story', others may take over which - as is the case for the main character and his father in this book - can have tragic consequences.
They opt for the latter and it's heart-breaking to read their journey, tragicomic at times and also thought-provoking because it made me question to what extent one can truly condemn another human being for a tragic mistake, what the basis for atonement would be and on what evidence one would be entitled to judge the situation in the first place.
It's my second Vonnegut book and I look forward to reading more of his work!
I'll remember Rudy Waltz's unfortunate double murder and the name he had to live with forevermore, but everything else will likely remain blurry with only the characters' attempts at escapes from their demons remaining vaguely memorable.
I'll remember how gripping the novel was, I'll remember wading through the characters' sadness and melancholy, I'll remember the glimpses of the terrifying and most importantly, I'll remember how certain parts were able to unleash my laughter.While it may not measure up to other Vonnegut novels, I can safely say that I thought Deadeye Dick was absolutely brilliant.
Very little in the way of a story, which is not always a bad thing in itself, but it feels rather aimless and doesn't really go anywhere.
Actually, thinking about it, there is quite a lot going on, but it's rather a mess and without some kind of direction or story to hold it together, it reads less like a novel and somewhat like a compendium of existential sadness, and not in a good way.As a Vonnegut fan I do not regret reading this, but it's not one I'll return to in a hurry, and I certainly would not recommend it to someone new to Vonnegut.
He can make you laugh, make you sad.Vonnegut was so ridiculously talented.Deadeye Dick isn't a long book.
Deadeye Dick is just like that.While it's not Cat's Cradle, The Sirens of Titan, Slaughterhouse-Five (I appreciate that it's a classic but it's not my favourite Vonnegut) or Breakfast of Champions (He didn't really like it, but it's really the only book by him that made me cry, and I really really like it), Deadeye Dick is worth a read, especially if you love that conversational, satirical style that he had.
This is the Vonnegut novel that called death, "shut his or her peep-hole".
This is the Vonnegut novel that had cooking recipes sprinkled here and there throughout.
This is the novel that had the misinformation about the Creole language only being in the present tense and the neutron bomb not wrecking anything but the living things.
And so on.This is a most depressing novel about a small town in Ohio that nobody cares about.
Where all the people that live in it are frauds.
The novel that has a twelve year old committing an accidental ...
3.5 starsI've read better by Vonnegut, but this was still a delight.His discussion about a person's story vs their epilogue was enlightening. I'll definitely be thinking about it for some time.
I finished this book for two reasons: 1.
I'm a Kurt Vonneget fan and want to read all of his books.
2. I don't like to start a book and not finish it.
I can't say that I enjoyed this book, or really remember too much about it.
The plot was almost pointless and it was beyond jaded.
However, I wouldn't suggest this book to anyone other than those people who want to read everything by him.
And if you're that person, save this book for last, I guess.
I love Vonnegut and, until this book, have yet to be disappointed.
It had a plot.
"A tutti i non-nati, a tutti i nascituri, a tutti gli innocenti grumetti di indifferenziata nientità: Alla larga dalla Vita!Io me la sono beccata, la vita.
Io mi sono ammalato di vita.
Ero anch'io un batuffolo di indifferenziata nientità, e poi, piffff, s'è aperto all'improvviso uno spiraglio, uno spioncino.
Luce e rumore si sono riversati dentro il nulla.
[…] Non s'azzittivano mai.
Ancora seguitano." (p.
13, incipit)"Questo è, secondo me, il principale difetto della vita: è troppo facile, da vivi, commettere sbagli terribili." (p.
Buono a nulla nella vita, ma molto spiritoso a volte nel commentarla." (p.
Viviamo ancora nel Medioevo.
I Secoli Bui non sono ancora finiti." (p.
I'm from way up north where the blueberries grow; where high school shuts down for the opening of deer season and kids learn to load buckshot before they hit puberty.
It's safe to say that I live in a small town.
And this, in a way, is sort of what this story is about.
Small towns are weird.
And there you are, working the same job at the mill your daddy did.There is a lot more to this story than just small-town midwestern living.
Vonnegut is a master of irony and this story hits home in a lot of ways.
Vonnegut is back at full strength!
With Deadeye Dick, his power returns, with a more mature end-of-life perspective.
Even though Vonnegut was only 59 while writing it, you get the feeling that his personal story has ended, and its epilogue has begun.
This is not a guess: he admits it for himself, through his characters, and is a main theme of the book.Between its opening lines"To the as-yet-unborn, to all innocent wisps of undifferentiated nothingness: watch out for life."and its final judgement"And you want to know something?
We are still in the Dark Ages.
The Dark Ages—they haven't ended yet."is a deeply emotional modern fable I will not soon forget.
Another great Vonnegut novel down! The more you read Vonnegut, the more you realize that each of his books is simply a different cynical riff on some aspect of his personal microcosm. This one is more of a tangent to the others, great reading as a sort of appendix or precursor to Breakfast Of Champions. The story stands completely alone, but it would be a very odd place to start if you were not yet initiated to his world. I wouldn't start here, but if your burning through his books, make sure you hit this one.
“To the as-yet-unborn, to all innocent wisps of undifferentiated nothingness: Watch out for life.” Life is the opening and closing of “peepholes” in time, each peephole telling a story. There’s quite a bit going on here, but it focuses largely on the loss of innocence, life’s story, and life’s epilogue. Rudy Waltz fast became one of my favorite KV creations. His recipes and memory playlets added a layer of complexity to the character and style. As always, Vonnegut is the master of satire.
I loved this! The bomb, big pharma, police brutality, the modern age, and so much more - always timely and of the moment. Heavy themes, but wrapped in genuine goodness. Vonnegut's autobiographical prologues are the best, this has to be has one of my faves.
Start again.Although Deadeye Dick was written by a seasoned Vonnegut, at the height of his skill as a master of American diction in prose, this novel just doesn't quite come together for me 100%.
And. let's face it, religion and politics are all about exploiting stories in order to control people--sometimes to make them empathetic and moral, sometimes to take their cash or to get them to do horrible things to unbelievers or foreigners or, preferably, both--this explains why politics and religion tend to flock together.Connecting these thoughts makes me like Deadeye Dick better than I thought I did when I began writing this review.
there's something about most Vonnegut novels that isn't dull exactly but plodding and precious and v one dimensional. like it is impossible to think that it will matter if you finish the book or not. nothing will happen.
Kalmasilmä Kallena tunnetun Ruby Waltzin kreisiä perhetarinaa oli ilo lukea. Annoin kirjalla vain kolme tähteä, koska Vonnegutin asteikolla se oli keskihauska, keskisarkastinen ja keskikekseliäs.Midland Cityssä tirkistysreiät avautuvat ja sulkeutuvat. Tirkistysreikä tarkoittaa syntymää ja kuolemaa.Waltzit ovat tyypillisiä midlandcityläisiä - sympaattisia hörhöjä. Superrikas feikkimaalari-isä menettää omaisuutensa, eikä pahastu pätkääkään. Poika Rubyn vahingonlaukaus sulkee raskaana olevan naisen tirkistysreiän. Pojasta tulee Midland Cityn ikioma paaria, Kalmasilmä Kalle, kyseenalainen paikallisjulkkis.Vonnegutin kirjasta löytyy neutronipommi, ystävä nimeltä Adolf Hitler, Amerikan ainoa julkinatsi, taidekritiikkiä, näytelmäkirjallisuutta ja monta holhouksen tarpeessa olevaa aikuista.Superviihdyttävää luettavaa. Kalmasilmä on tehty hotkaistavaksi. Mitään järisyttävää en sen parissa kokenut eikä sillä nyt ole edes väliä!
Kurt Vonnegut's coming of age satire set in the Forties contains scenes of befriending dictators, gun worship, meth addiction in suburbia, caged youngsters and clumsy police brutality.
My favorite passage is Vonnegut's call for gun control: "My wife has been killed by a machine which should never have come into the hands of any human being.
It makes the blackest of all human wishes come true at once, at a distance: that something die.There is evil for you.We cannot get rid of mankind's fleetingly wicked wishes.
We can get rid of the machines that make them come true.I give you a holy word: DISARM".
There is a lot to unpack here, from this trove of symbols and motifs; but I will simply recommend this book as the rollicking yet sad tale of the trials of an American family, as microcosm of the nation itself. One quote stands out to me:“That is my principal objection to life, I think: It is too easy, when alive, to make perfectly horrible mistakes.”
A solid novel. It doesn't have the impact of some of Vonnegut's bigger-picture works, but boy does it deliver with good characters, a decent pace, and piercing social observations. I'm surprised Deadeye Dick isn't as loved as some of his other works.
Černý až cynický román o tom, jak tragédie z mládí prostoupila celým životem jednoho člověka a jeho rodiny a vlastně i malého amerického městečka. Hlavní hrdina žije tak, jako by sám sebe trestal za to, co v deseti letech způsobil. Celá ta bezútěšnost jeho života je ještě více zvýrazněna pozadím války, drog i dalších neúspěchů, které ho potkávají. Vyznívá to jako kritika nebo satira o nicotnosti a marnosti lidského života vůbec. Přestože kniha obsahuje mnoho skvělých myšlenek a úvah, musím říci, že mě nijak zvlášť nezasáhla.

I picked this up because I wanted to read a Kurt Vonnegut book that I haven't read before, and neither the title or the back-cover synopsis sounded familiar to me.
So what gives?Anyway, if only for my own reference the next time I try to pick this up, thinking I've never read it before, here's a quick plot rundown (spoilers to follow, if anyone cares).
There's a lot more (the book is told in flashback after both parents are dead and Rudy and Felix own a hotel in Haiti), but I'm tired and I said I would only do a synopsis anyway.
In many ways, this is a book about nothing, but it somehow manages to remain interesting in almost Seinfeldesque way.The novel is a personal life story told by Rudy Waltz, who got the nickname Deadeye Dick as a kid when he accidentally shot a pregnant woman.
This was my 6th Vonnegut novel, and while it's not as poignant and it does not have a universally strong message like some of his best works, Deadeye Dick was still good enough effort to make me feel like I want to return to the author some more in the future.
Written two years before Vonnegut's 1984 attempted suicide, it's the most depressing and depressive novel I've ever read.The narrator, Rudy Waltz, as a teen accidentally shot and killed a pregnant woman while minding his father's gun collection.
His father, a wealthy but totally untalented would-be artist in Midland City, Indiana, after a brief friendship with Hitler bought and outfitted a massive carriage house which he turned into a home.
Rudy, now in late middle age, has never had a girlfriend, never had sex, considers himself a neuter and finds life to be an odd, meaningless experiment.
