https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11397872-a-book-of-remarkable-criminals
People haven't changed since the beginning of time. Same motives, money or love, still at the forefront of malicious violence. Good writing, taking court reports and news accounts and making coherent tales of treachery and malice. The introduction was informative and good reading as well!On a side note after reading this, I feel like we have become a lazy and illiterate society, no longer using expansive vocabulary, dumbing down our thought patterns and expressions to the least common denominator. Such a pity! When's the last time you read a book that used the word, 'compunctious' ?
When I first stumbled upon this book, I was hoping for something on the lines of understanding the psychology of criminals. However, this one turned out to be a plain documentary listing of a collection of crimes in the 19th century. Given the era, the nature of crimes by themselves were plain vanilla; a sequel with 20th century incidents would be good with the level of sophistication being higher. Overall, an okay read.
All in all not a bad book. The crimes committed were all in 1800s but still a decent read.
I like it because it covers the life and crimes of criminals who were all, in a way, small criminals, but each remarkable in his or her own way.They were not all remarkable as criminals, but their life stories are remarkable, and some of them really were remarkable in the manner they turned to crime.
I found the stories to be fascinating.
Many years back, I read a book on the deadliest murderers of the twentieth century.
These are stories of criminals who lived in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and their stories are well-worth reading.
Not for everybody, but if you have an interest in criminology and in history, you may well find it fascinating, as I did! Not only do you find out once notorious but now almost forgotten villains, but you also get insights into the times and cultures they lived in - not so far from ours in time, but already so different in many ways.
This was a very interesting book of murders committed in the late 19th century. I found it to be quite fascinating, though some passages were a bit hard to understand. There were several discussions of court proceedings as well, which were intriguing. All things considered, a very good read.
Online က ေဒါငးလုတရတဲအတြက ၀မးသာပါတယ။ ဖတခငသူေတြဆီ ပို႔ေပးလို႔ရတယ...။ ရာဇ၀တမမားအေၾကာငး။ ကဴးလြနသူ တရားခံေတြရဲ႕ စိတၱဇျဖစစဥ၊ ခံစားမ...၊ ကဴးလြနပံု.. စတာေတြကို အေသးစိတေလလာျခငး။ ကမၻာေကာ မခငးေတြနဲ႔ တူပါတယ...။ စိတကူးယဥဇာတလမးေတြထကစာရင ပိုဆြဲေဆာငမရွိမယထငတယ..။
Online က ေဒါင္းလုတ္ရတဲ့အတြက္ ၀မ္းသာပါတယ္။ ဖတ္ခ်င္သူေတြဆီ ပို႔ေပးလို႔ရတယ္...။ ရာဇ၀တ္မႈမ်ားအေၾကာင္း။ က်ဴးလြန္သူ တရားခံေတြရဲ႕ စိတၱဇျဖစ္စဥ္၊ ခံစားမႈ...၊ က်ဴးလြန္ပံု.. စတာေတြကို အေသးစိတ္ေလ့လာျခင္း။ ကမၻာေက်ာ္ မႈခင္းေတြနဲ႔ တူပါတယ္...။ စိတ္ကူးယဥ္ဇာတ္လမ္းေတြထက္စာရင္ ပိုဆြဲေဆာင္မႈရွိမယ္ထင္တယ္..။
I got this book as a freebie with the .mobi reader on my Blackberry. I'm a fan of true crime and had not read about any of the very interesting cases (between 1850 and 1910) before. I very much enjoyed the telling and the old fashioned morality tone and speculation of the work.
DryThe stories were interesting but the writing was a bit stuffy for my taste. Obviously British. It was a free download, and worth every penny
InterestingDefinitely a very unique book. Some very interesting stories that are really different, strange and many border on the bizarre.
All i wanted to say was it would be an idea to take a breath and use a few full stops. Couldnt carry on is I was alwaus loosing interest.
This was like watching a series of Forensic Files episodes taking place in the 19th century. I wouldn't call many of these criminals remarkable but the cases were entertaining.
Good book. Simple language easy to understand. The author grasps attention of the readers in each case, though i found most of the cases to be from france(paris).
I am usually the person who won't give up on a book ...
I have to read it to the end.
It once took me four years; the book was over 700 pages long, but four years ....
In this case, however, I had to make an exception.
While the author must have done quite a bit of research, the criminals described were somewhat 'unremarkable.' There wasn't anything t0 pique my interest -- nothing exciting to encourage me to continue reading.
I believe this book will appeal to a specific audience, but it wasn't for me.
