https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189223.Vengeance_is_Mine
Οι περιγραφές κάποιων μυστικών περασμάτων και χώρων σε διαμερίσματα των ηρώων, όπως και ο ρόλος που διαδραματίζουν κάποιοι ειδικά τοποθετημένοι καθρέπτες δίνουν μια έντονα μυστηριώδη πνοή στην εξέλιξη της υπόθεσης.Μη ξεχάσω να πω ότι είναι και το πρώτο μυθιστόρημα με ήρωα τον Μάικ Χάμερ όπου η βοηθός του, η Βέλντα, χρησιμοποιεί ένα αυτόματο όπλο και σκοτώνει.Μέσος όρος βαθμολογίας: 3,8/5 ή 7,6/10.Y.Γ.: Σε αρκετά σημεία, η μετάφραση δημιουργεί νοηματική σύγχυση και κενά στα γεγονότα.
In this particular novel, Spillane takes on a theme that is found in many fifties hardboiled novels, that of a man wrongfully accused of murder and at odds and often on the run from the legal system while trying to solve the crime on his own.
All the people who lost their lives because Hammer poked his nose into this business.The writing in this book is very typical Spillane from the very first line: “The guy was dead as hell.
In just a few short lines, Spillane has blood and guts and guns and his protagonist in a jam.Velda is more prominently featured here than in the first two Hammer books.
Great fun as usual but that ending spoiled it - as if Mike Hammer wouldn’t have worked that one out earlier....
A Mike Hammer book does not start with someone bringing him a case, instead a person he knows will die and he'll swear revenge and set about taking it.
The entire thing is turned up at 11 and is a rollercoaster ride of lurid sex and violence.I wrote a few days back about the James Bond of the book actually inhabiting the real world, this really is something that Mike Hammer doesn't do.
Mike himself is a big brutal battering ram at the centre, with his attempts at emotion - jealousy and remorse in the main - just making him more over-wrought.The book all takes place at an absurdly high pitch.
For me Spillane has a balanced outlook and this book in particular carries a few surprises and raises topics that may make you more aware of liberal traditions in America at this time.The writing is good.
“By the time I reached the street there were grey feathers of snow in the air slanting down through the sheer walls of the buildings to the street.” But it does have its moments.
She had grey eyes.
Deep grey eyes.
I had thought I'd read all the original Mike Hammer novels by Mickey Spillane.
Vengeance Is Mine is a rough and tumble read.
Spillane was (justifiably) famous for the big twist ending.
I accidentally caught a glimpse of the last page and it totally spoiled the book for me-don't make the same mistake I did.
Not the greatest Spillane (that title belongs to The Twisted Thing) but very enjoyable nonetheless, as long as one remembers Hammer is essentially a child of his era.
This book was written in 1950-we've come a long way baby.
I liked this much, much better than "One Lonely Night," and it does make me likely to read another Spillane. In some ways, the story is over the top even for today, and the ending--while being highly unbelievable--did create a surprise and brought a good belly laugh. It definitely seems like a work that doesn't take itself too seriously and I can appreciate that for this type of story.
And poor Velda, his assistant needs to stay virginally pure regardless of how much she throws herself at him and how much it physically pains him to refuse her advances.So when Mike Hammer wakes up in a hotel apartment, drunk as a skunk, with the feeling of sick in his mouth and a dead friend next to him, it will come as no surprise for the Spillane aficionado to discover who the true culprit behind the murder is.What *will* come as a surprise is the ultimate revelation that will easily redefine the topic of "dodgy subtext in Mike Hammer thrillers" and bring it up to a new level.It was only when I read that final reveal that I noticed that I had previously read the novel before...
I did say this was better than the others, but the ending made me feel slightly ill, so it doesn't get an extra star. Transphobia, yay! But Velda is really awesome, even if the formula and the -isms don't really vary from the other books.Quick-moving, with lots of gore and so on, and you'd better not trust anybody. You probably know the drill.
compelling evidence that the male psyche was broken beyond repair way before women's lib
Too many bodies. Hammer bounces back far too fast from far too many wounds, beatings and accidents in just a few days. Maybe because of all those bouts of "possession." Food? Sleep? Are you kidding? Trope just piled on trope until the whole mishmash just fell over and littered the floor.Oh and btw the "surprise" ending was pretty predictable from where I sat. I predicted most of it the first time that character made an appearance.Even for Spillane--not his best work.

i admit it- i am a big Mickey Spillane fan eventhough he is kind of a fear-mongering brute with a bad homophobe streak. BUT in some of these stories Spillane writes top-notch noir = means you basically can't guess the ending or the trajectory of the story. Which is a cheap thrill, granted, that for a cheap-thrill afternoon in a hammock, i find just about right.
VENGEANCE IS MINE is the third book in the Mike Hammer series.At this point, Spillane had dialed in his formula: a friend dies, Hammer goes outside the system against all doubts to prove it was murder, and pieces drop in his lap through a series of violence and intrigue.It has improved character development, particularly between Hammer and Velda, but also with memories of his killing Charlotte in I, The Jury.
I mean, a critique won't be useful since Spillane has passed and the book has been published longer than I've been alike, but I still feel duty-bound to give an honest review.The second is that Hammer seems to have slid more fully into the stereotype of the times and seems to like slapping women to put them in their place.
Тем не менее, это так.
Забавно, что первый роман о Майке Хаммере (главный герой) был написан, дабы выплатить банковский кредит.
Это кое-что обьясняет.Перед нами легкий детектив, который не назовешь интеллектуальным.
Однако в книге все составляющие успешного детектива присутствуют: здесь и крутой, слишком везучий и самоуверенный красавчик, от которого в восторге все дамы, и гангстеры, и глуповатые полицейские, а еще убийство, много черного юмора и еще больше красивых женщин.Как по мне, харизматичность, крутость и решимость покарать убийцу главного героя, Майка Хаммера, несколько гиперболизированы, а сюжет предсказуем.
Тем не менее, шарм главного героя передается самому повествованию, от чего роман читается быстро и приятно.
I got to this after #1 I, Jury and #2 My Gun is Quick. In his third book, Mickey has the angry Mike Hammer hitting his homicidal stride. He dials up the sex and violence, the dames falling for Mike's machismo as the death toll mounts. The plot about avenging the death of an old army buddy and working to regain his license is a stretch but the ending is even stretchier.
Beginning and ending with a fresh corpse, as the best detective stories do.
The best Mike Hammer of the first three. Some great twists.
Read in the 80s
Fast paced and often brutal, Spillane pulls no punches with this one but the ending is a complete surprise. Hard-boiled action from the first word to the last.
3.5*
Nobody is more hard boiled than Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer. I always enjoy the actual, of-era feeling of Spillane's rough and tumble plot lines (as uneven as they are at times). Mike Hammer--in Vengence Is Mine--inhabits a long lost, late-40's New York City. It's a fun place to revisit, even if Spillane isn't the greatest writer who ever lived.
The ghosts of Charlotte Manning from that first book still haunt Mike Hammer in the novel, and I like the bit of continuity that we see from that.
The best part of this book was seeing Hammer's assistant Velda take on a bigger role than in the first two novels.
Since Velda has a licence of her own, she plays a key role in helping Mike solve the case putting her own life in peril.
A good read but I enjoyed the first 2 Mike Hammer books a bit more than this one.
By the time I was 95% done with this book, I was certain that this was a step forward for the Mike Hammer books.
Sure, this is still a male power fantasy, where a self-proclaimed "ugly" guy proves to be irresponsible to any woman he chooses to grimace at, thanks largely to his proclivity to violence --- but it was fun to see Hammer adjust to not having a gun for part of this story.
I've had fun with Mike Hammer, but I think I've gotten as much as I can from this character.
Im a bit tired of the crime novel genre. Its always the same. Well not exactly, the authors try to invigorate the genre by using exotic sceneries, historic backgrounds, backstories of the investigators (excentric, alcoholics, violent and so on). But in the end too many ingredients are still always the same.This book is old, so it is not as sophisticated as newer novels of the genre. I disliked the way that the protagonist Mike Hammer ist portrayed. All the women fall for him, they adore him, the
I´m a bit tired of the crime novel genre.
Well not exactly, the authors try to invigorate the genre by using exotic sceneries, historic backgrounds, backstories of the investigators (excentric, alcoholics, violent and so on).
But in the end too many ingredients are still always the same.This book is old, so it is not as sophisticated as newer novels of the genre.
I disliked the way that the protagonist Mike Hammer ist portrayed.
Whatever...The story (that was layed out by the main protagonist to the supposed killer) is not really convincing.
I enjoyed this one more than I did the previous one.
It's so over the top I imagine that many modern readers would be really turned off.
There's frequent soliloquies on the pleasure to found in killing, I'd be surprised if it ever sat well with readers.
Add in the big twist and there is a lot in here to offend the oh so sensitive reader of the 2010's.If you can look past the prejudices though, it is a pretty fun read, and a tight, fast paced avenging novel.
I'm surprised no one has been trying to reboot the series for movies or TV.
#3 in the Mike Hammer series.Mike Hammer series - He was a nice guy.
Now he's dead.
That's all Hammer knows about the stiff in the hotel room.
But that isn't enough because Hammer suspects murder while the cops are calling it a suicide.
Without a license or a gun, Hammer is pushing his way through a swirl of sex-and-game clubs, high priced models and not just a little blackmail.
Someone is working hard to frame Hammer and he's working hard to find out why.
She holds the key to the crime wave that could unlock the mystery behind the nice guy's murder.
More enjoyment from tough guy Hammer who gets all the ladies, takes a beating and stands up to deliver a beating back.
He is mad as hell in this one.
Of course he is always mad which is what drives him to beat up and kill the bad guys.
Velda plays a bigger sexier role.A twist in the end I did not expect but was also a little corny.
Spillane novels are more about the sexy and violent ride to the end.
Homophobic and sexist but some is due to the time it was written plus you just need to expect that from these books.
By 1950, when this book was published, Mickey Spillane had clearly been studying his craft, because "Vengeance Is Mine" was far better written than "I, the Jury." He was no Raymond Chandler (Who is?), but he had become a vastly improved Mickey Spillane. Mike Hammer had become more sophisticated as well, and even uses a French word. I liked the sharp observations of the Bowery and the Village, then the louche districts of New York, though why he had the Manhattan district attorney investigating a murder on Long Island I don't know.
He was a nice guy.
Now he's dead.
That's all Hammer knows about the stiff in the hotel room.
But that isn't enough because Hammer suspects murder while the cops are calling it a suicide.
Without a license or a gun, Hammer is pushing his way through a swirl of sex-and-game clubs, high priced models and not just a little blackmail.
Someone is working hard to frame Hammer and he's working hard to find out why.
She holds the key to the crime wave that could unlock the mystery behind the nice guy's murder.
