https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19542841-more-happy-than-not
ADAM NOTE: MORE HAPPY THAN NOT is my debut novel, and there was a time where I believed this book was never going to be seen by others after rejections and nonsense. But it's here! And it's about a boy who is considering a memory-alteration procedure to forget he's gay because leading a life as a straight teen would probably be way easier for him. It's about science versus nature, friendship, sexuality, and a quest for happiness. I hope every book I put out into the universe feels as special and FAVORITE-y as this one does to me.
WOW. Halfway through this book I thought I had it all figured out. I WAS VERY VERY WRONG IN A VERY VERY GOOD WAY. This book was touching and thoughtful and man oh man, does it pack an emotional punch. Awesome debut, definitely recommended, and I'm looking forward to reading more by Adam Silvera in the future!
You will very likely be clutching at your heart, in fear that it will break.
But while I wish I could make a camp fire out of this book and watch it distort itself into nothingness, I’m also glad that I read it.
Hearts still break.
I don’t know anyone who would willingly dive into a book and hope for it to shatter them.
It’s okay because I want them to linger inside of my mind.
It’s okay because they deserve to.
But the pain can help you find happiness if you can remember it.
________________________________________I have to read this book.
“This is still an ugly world.”  I opened with that quote for a reason - while definitely entertaining, More Happy Than Not is a dark, sad book that deals with homophobia, depression and suicide. The quirky dialogue and nerdy references to comic books, Star Wars and action heroes are much needed to lighten up an otherwise very distressing novel.Personally, I do not think the promised big twist is particularly hard to guess if you've read the description and (view spoiler)[seen the movie this is
It's about coming to terms with ones sexuality, it's about friendship, it's about memory and forgetting, it's a love story, and it's about choosing to be happy, despite the sad.Oh, and it's also one of the most diverse books I've ever read.
Suddenly, Aaron has to deal with the realization that he's gay in a place where being gay isn't welcomed, or choose to not deal with it - by going to the Leteo institute and having his memories taken away.Obviously a book about depression, suicide and homophobia would be sad, but I think it's the other little things that make More Happy Than Not an emotional read.
Wow. Wow wow wow.This book blew my mind.
4.5/5 stars!
More Happy Than Not does just that, because though it may look like a coming out story at first glance, it compounds and deepens Aaron's journey: though his sexuality may play a huge part in the book, it only really scratches the surface of Aaron's character and his experiences, a fabulous move by Silvera.
While it would have been easy to construct a single antagonist for the entire story, Silvera sticks to creating complicated and substantial characters, people you will find yourself thinking about long after finish the novel.5) This book is hopeful.
“The boy with no direction taught me something unforgettable: happiness comes again if you let it.”I've waited so so long (well, since this was released I guess) to read this.
This was one of my most anticipated books of 2015 and it did not let me down.Adam Silvera seems to be a cool guy.
Maybe not his novel(because yeah it is kind of sad) but definitely his writing style.This was a page-turner from start to finish.
I really got a feeling for the protagonist's surroundings, his family and friends.
More Happy Than Not  took me by surprise, big time.
THIS BOOK. I'm getting choked up just thinking about it. I'll avoid posting details for now, but suffice it to say that:1. Aaron's voice is pitch-perfect, and it's impossible to read this book without falling in love with him.2. It is full of surprises and twists and emotional highs and lows, to the point where putting the book down is almost physically painful.3. It will break your heart in the best possible way.Beautiful, beautiful book.
Aaron Soto through out the course of the book struggles with his sexuality and then tries to turn to a new procedure that will help him forget he is gay.
The premise was really original and unique, I haven't read anything like this.
I didn't see the twist that came half way coming at all and I got very emotionally involved in the story.
I like the questions the book raises about our identities and how much of that can be changed by forgetting painful things that have happened to us.
DON'T MIND ME, JUST OVER HERE DROWNING IN MORE HAPPY THAN NOT FEELS. (full video review to come!)
The realness of it swept me away like The Catcher in the Rye. There was something kind of immature about how giddy I was to read about this fictitious kid, angsty to lose his virginity, but alas, I was turning pages and giggly like an idiot, and shamelessly loving every second of it.Predictably, this isn't just a story about a kid getting laid.
No, it quickly moves into a new direction, into what seems to be a new instalove relationship, and the way it does is cliched enough to almost ruin that awesome sense of realness earlier established.

maybe you've never done it before, this badass slide down a thirty foot rail at a forty-five degree angle, and maybe you think it's probably a bad idea—but you've seen other kids do it, and it looks awesome.if only you could ever get up the courage.maybe you lean your hip against it, a couple different times, talking to a friend, pretending not to be standing there on the stairs wondering what it might be like to hurtle down to a spectacularly lithe and athletic landing you'll pretend isn't actually the coolest thing you've ever done, ever.and maybe, maaaybe one time you're there long after the last class has let out for the day, and you know you're going to do it right then, when the building is empty of anyone you'd want to see you triumph, as well as everyone you wouldn't want to see you fall.so you hypothetically do the thing, maybe.
This book was just really sad, at least to me. All of the things Aaron went through is just too much. No one should ever have to go through that kind of stuff. And the Leteo Institute, I have no words.
2.5*This book just wasn't really my cup of tea. I don't think it was bad, I think the writing was good, the message was good, and everything else was good, but it's just not really my kind of book unfortunately.
So even though the majority of the book is rooted in reality, there was just enough of that weird twist to make it feel too much at arm's length.
Gen wasn't two-demensional like one might expect a side character like her to be.
I guess the ending of this book just made me conflicted.
Silvera discussed the "not every story has a happy ending" but this just felt like it threw me into a river then left me to fend for myself??
I don't really understand the plot twist that led us there, and all of the characters in the end just sorta....
Really enjoyed this one, because a) I read it in the Caribbean, and b) its a very engaging story with likable (and despicable) characters and a genuinely shocking twist. Definitely recommend, especially if you're looking for good LGBTQ oriented books
A few days ago my good friend, and talented author, Adam Silvera posted this piece on his blog: Happiness Isn’t Just an Outside Thing.
The blog post talks mainly about depression, which Adam has grappled with for some time now, and is a beautiful meditation on the failure of external validation to satisfy the holes that truly need filling.
I’m so proud of him for sharing his hard journey with all his readers with the same incisive honesty that makes him such a fantastic writer.On that note, a few words about his beautiful book, More Happy Than Not,which tells the story of Aaron Soto, a high school student in the Bronx recovering from a recent suicide attempt.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ "It's okay how some stories leave off without an ending. Life doesn't always deliver the one you would expect." Holy book slump, Batman! I was on a tear through 2 and 3 Star books when More Happy Than Not finally queued up at the library. Then Larry told me I had to love it or we could no longer be friends, but I had to go watch my kids lose 427 baseball games first so I left the book on the table . . .  When I finally returned (my al
I was on a tear through 2 and 3 Star books when More Happy Than Not finally queued up at the library.
Then Larry told me I had to love it or we could no longer be friends, but I had to go watch my kids lose 427 baseball games first so I left the book on the table .
What is the limit of how much I loved this story????
But the pain can only help you find happiness if you can remember it."
Aaron, the main character, has to deal with the consequences of both his father's suicide and his own suicide attempt and expresses how difficult it is for people he loves to trust him again with his own life.
Sadly, I was fucking pissed, because I love her and I couldn't forgive her to give up on us - yes, because I couldn't deal with the Guilt.
This fucking guilt you feel when you realize that people you love and live with can suffer without even you noticing.
who hurt you, adam silvera????!?!?i seem to have found myself unintentionally reading silveras bibliography in reverse chronological order and his books just kept getting sadder and sadder. but there is something in that sadness he creates. something living. something real. its something that makes you realise that heartbreak is good because it means youre alive. and you begin to learn that positives can come from the negatives, that pain doesnt have to be the end. you grow and understand and become the person you want to be. and then suddenly, you realise youre more happy than not.
  4 stars
Audiobook: Other than......some of the characters had strange names: Me Crazy, Baby Freddie, Skinny Dave, Fat Dave, and our main character, Aaron gets the nickname of Stretch....Plus......there are a lot of nutty games being played: "Manhunt 1 2 3, Manhunt 1 2 3, Manhunt 1 2 3", ...a shark game, 'don't touch green' game, ...
Often very funny -often gut-wrenching sad.It's a powerful story dealing with serious complex life issues- with three very likable characters: Aaron, Genevieve, and Thomas!
Themes include - and not excluding others....life, love, family, loss, death, depression, friendships, social issues, class, ethnicity, peer pressure, teenage angst, sex, and suicide.
I think I need a hug.
Wow! Read this in under 24 hours and it blew me away. Definitely surprised me, and I loved how raw and real this felt. Amazing, memorable characters... I really don't even know what to say. I really enjoyed this and would love to read more by this author in the future!
It doesn’t have the characters that etch themselves on to your soul, and it doesn’t have an unthinkable theme threaded throughout it that leaves room for a million different stories.I haven’t stop thinking about TBDATE since the moment I finished reading it, and that was my favourite thing about it, this book isn’t like that.
More Happy Than Not is the kind of book you forget about right after you read it.
So, if you’ve never read any Adam Silvera before I highly recommend this but for me, since I had such high expectations it kind of just fell flat.
He's slowly remembering what happiness might feel like this summer with the support of his girlfriend Genevieve, but it's his new best friend, Thomas, who really gets Aaron to open up about his past and confront his future.
“She doesn’t really understand Want versus Need like we do at home; just because you can afford something doesn't mean you have to have it.”    If we are going to talk about relationships we should probably start with Genevieve and Aaron.
I don't know what to think about this book.
Ugh, I ended up so distraught :(.I kind of liked it, but I could never really connect with the characters, although I really liked a bunch of them (Aaron, Gen, Aaron's mom, Eric, Evangeline and Thomas, specially Thomas).
It's a sad, sad book with little glints of happiness.
And I have nothing against sad or tragic books, I love them!
It's just that this one didn't really do it for me, but it isn't a book I wouldn't recommend.ALSO, I LOVED the plot twist!
and before I end this review I just want to said that I HATED Aaron's "friends".
UPDATE: I had originally given "More Happy Than Not" by Adam Silvera 4 stars but compared to all the various YA novels I've read in the last year, I'm going to go ahead and bump my rating to 5 stars.
This novel is so unique.
Ugh. Original review below:Whew!
I liked it but I didn't love it.
This book dealt with a lot of heavy topics like suicide, homosexuality, love, rejection, betrayal, self-loathing, domestic violence, etc.
Even though it was depressing at times, overall I thought it was a beautiful and unique coming-of-age story.
Love is a bitch at any age.
[3.5 ⭐] I'm conflicted as to how I feel about this book. On one hand, it was extremely depressing to read about the general struggles the main character faced whilst also coming to terms with his sexuality and to see how disgusting homophobia is. I think Silvera did a great job in delving into the aspect of how difficult it can be to come out and the possible, unfortunate consequences that come alongside it. On the other hand, it took a good while for me to get into this book and figure out the
On one hand, it was extremely depressing to read about the general struggles the main character faced whilst also coming to terms with his sexuality and to see how disgusting homophobia is.
On the other hand, it took a good while for me to get into this book and figure out the point of the plot and its direction.
I can't help but wish that aspect was dealt with in a different way.
I can see this book having a lasting impact on me though, but I wish I loved it!
