https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432288.The_Grass_Is_Always_Greener_over_the_Septic_Tank
I love Erma's books!
While other kids were sneakily reading the latest issue of Batman or Archie & Veronica comic books between the pages of their schoolbooks during class I was trying not to get caught laughing too loudly at the pages of the latest book by humorist author Erma Bombeck.
Its safe to say that I grew up with her books and her name, and stories, just like V.C. Andrews', another author I grew up reading, brings back a lot of good reading memories.
Erma, and her writing, will be dearly missed.
A long, long time ago... In a household far, far away... My mother kept this book on a shelf. I don't recall that I was ever told absolutely not to read it, but I do remember sneaking into the den when no one was watching, removing it from the shelf, and absconding with it to my bedroom (or to a certain snug cache behind the sofa) and thinking of myself as "quite grown up" because I was reading a book for adults. And on the sly no less. How funny to think of this now... :)
Worth RE-READING!
Years ago, this gave me one of my first reading experiences where I laughed out loud and then had to close the book to finish out my bout with hysteria, wipe my eyes, and then find my place in the book again to continue reading, only to start laughing all over AGAIN.
Erma is just one of her her own kind, and there are a lot of different kinds, but her kind is best served with a box of tissues for those hysterical moments.
Every reader's 'moment' will be different...
THAT is why Erma is so great.
Erma Bombeck is still funny, but funniest if you remember the post war period and the building of suburbia. Her books seem to be collections of her columns and she has a good eye for details which take to expanding into comic situations. She wrote about her own life and was read by people going through much the same problems as she was. This book is illustrated by Judith Nilson (I think) and her drawings appear to be cartoons of real people which adds immeasurably to the humour. Some of the allusions have dated a bit, but I still laughed.
I found this on a table at work with a mysterious note offering it free to a good home. It's pretty outdated and probably suited more to those with a nostalgia for 1970s suburbia. Somewhat amusing in parts though.
I could be really snotty and say that this book is an essential read for anyone wanting to study the rise of suburbia in the United States, but that would belittle Erma Bombeck's gentle, satirical exaggeration of the woman's perspective on suburban life.Just as with the Barbie and Ken dolls she encounters with some aggravation and then with amusement as she watches her children throw Ken in a box when he's supposed to be "at work" and they play at the domestic dramas they know, this book, between the satire and exaggeration, is a fun glance into that life.
But it's hardly comprehensive.
It is always funny.
We had family jokes around the phrase “over the septic tank.” So I was a little nervous about revisiting Bombeck.
I didn’t want to lose my pleasant memories of that time or that humor.
Erma Bombeck may have written about the 60’s and 70’s into the 80’s but her work is timeless.
Bombeck was part of a generation of women who got married and stayed married, raised kids with a healthy self-esteem, moved to the burbs, tried to help neighbors, and mined humor in the day to day chaos of life.
The humor is timeless.
I used to have a newspaper column.
It sucked.
Ten years' experience gave her a lifetime of material, for which I'm supremely jealous, and no matter where she went, she always had her finger on the pulse of modern motherhood.With a book again tinted with the values of its era, it'd be interesting to know what Bombeck might have made of the age of smartphones, Facebook, and 64-inch flatscreen TVs...
I'm glad I decided to keep reading Erma's books after finishing If Life Is a Bowl of Cherries, What Am I Doing in the Pits? because this book, in my opinion, was lots better than the previous one I read!It's about living in the suburbs. How your neighbors are. What the social norms are. Her first chapter grabbed my attention immediately because, what can I say, it reminded me of my own famdamily when we would take "trips". I love her dry sense of humor. And I love that she keeps it clean. She is really a funny lady.
This book is proof that humor is not timeless. While Ms. Bombeck probably had a fabulously funny book in 1976, in 2009 it doesn't stand up.I do imagine that had one lived during that time (and was conscious enough to remember it), one would find the text quite intriguing and perhaps quite hilarious.For those of us who are younger, it may be best as an anthropological study about what life may have been like in the U.S. suburbs (subtracting all the humor) in those days. The book's a quick read, regardless, and there are a few laughs, still, scattered throughout.
Hard to believe this was written over 40 years ago as many of the tenets mentioned in this book about moving to the suburbs still hold true. While younger readers may not appreciate the stories told in this book, anyone over the age of 50 will be laughing all the way. This is a book that will make you laugh all the time and brings one back to a time when life was simpler and with far less worries. It is a very quick read and very enjoyable.
This was a great book!!
I laughed quite a few times during this one. I could definitely relate to most of it (especially being a new first time home owner.) Loved it!
Erma Bombeck made fun of the coming of suburbs and all the complications they brought in this funny book; for example: "Well, every time I push down the toaster, the garage door goes up.
The hot-water heater is hooked up to the garden hose and I am sauteeing the lawn.
Please Use House Next Door.'" She also commented on the coming of house parties, the picture window, Halloween (in the suburbs), the garage sale, Barbie & Ken, volunteering and car pools, to name a few.
It's hilarious to remember when these things began to take place in our society, especially when you have this book to guide you.
An ideal book to read aloud to the whole family.
When our cousins came to visit for a few days, we continued reading it aloud at the table, and this book became the request for each meal.
We laughed often and hard-- Erma Bombeck's writing is excellent for the stomach muscles!
It is dated, so we had to explain a lot of the 1950s references to the kids, but somehow most of Erma's observations still ring true today.
(Like about friends selling things to each other, kids wandering from house to house, schools being more progressive than we're ready for, and funny home fix-it problems.)
The Grass Is Always Greener over the Septic TankI read this book back in the early 80s, when I was in high school. At the time, Erma Bombeck was well known for her stand up comedy act, taking events from her own life and family. She eventually wrote about her family - in the same comedic vein - in a few books, including this book. I remember it being quite funny and enjoyable, while still being down to earth. Good, clean fun for just about all ages starting at roughly 14 years old. Be ready to laugh!
I remember reading this book and others by Erma Bombeck in the late 70s and really loving them. I reread this book for bookclub this month and just didn’t enjoy reading it nearly as much. The other ladies in my bookclub said the same thing, in fact only one other person finished the entire book. The book is very dated and I think some subjects just aren’t viewed as funny anymore.
A quick little book but very funny. Bombeck’s humour lay often in the little side comments, the last kid piping up in a string of complaints, or side snides that are slipped in the last second. Very funny little criticism of the pioneers who settled suburbia in the sixties and the way we adapted. Very fun.
Any day that you need a good laugh, pick up a book by the amazing Erma Bombeck. I devoured her books when I was younger, and I cried when she passed. She was amazing, and she still makes me smile to this day. She feels like a best friend when you read her books.
Witty and real Moms who are wanting something to laugh about please read this. Life is funny. Life is hard. But oh so worth the ride. This take on surviving motherhood and family life is a fun read and even a little thought provoking. I loved it and recommend it.
I’m really kind of surprised how funny I still found this. Despite moments of dated material, there is... almost too much that is still relevant. Of course, the first time I read Bombeck I was a teen and still found her funny.
I loved Erma Bombeck!
My attempt at finding a lighthearted read has failed spectacularly...
Erma Bombeck’s The Grass is Always Greener Over the Septic Tank is about her life moving to suburbia as a young mother in the 1940’s.
The suburbs were a new idea at that time, and Erma chronicles—with her unique humor—how the suburbs and family life grew in that area.
We might not need to worry too much about septic tanks, but we do need to worry about rain water catch basins with all the impervious surfaces being laid out.
That’s how Erma’s family moved forward, and that’s how my family struggles to move forward.
Bombeck’s The Grass is Always Greener Over the Septic Tank is a fun read.
I wanted to like it more. I guess I just don't relate.
If your looking for a good laugh read this...
A classic. Read it ages ago as a teen and found it funny then. Still funny today. Some things never change and septic tanks are one of them.
An oldie but goodie, just as funny this time as the first time I read it.
Her books are always fun.
Absolutely hilarious. I loved this!
