https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/703.The_Plot_Against_America
Breathtaking and highly realistic, The Plot Against America is Philip Roth's vision of an alternative path history could have taken had Charles Lindbergh have not kept his anti-Semitism as a private matter, but (like Mr Trump) brought it into the political arena.
Perhaps the Nobel committee would have gotten a callback had Roth been picked over Zimmerman this year?I cannot insist enough that this is a critical book to read NOW.The renaming of Inauguration Day by Drumpf is particularly chilling...and the promotion of Bannon to the National Security Council should scare the shit out of you.Here is a recent article from the New Yorker where Roth says that Trump is actually far worse than what he had imagined with Lindbergh.
Putin is wringing his hands in delight much like Hitler does in Roth's book.
Israel didn’t exist yet, six million European Jews hadn’t yet ceased to exist, and the local relevance of distant Palestine (under British mandate since the 1918 dissolution by the victorious Allies of the last far-flung provinces of the defunct Ottoman Empire) was a mystery to me…I pledged allegiance to the flag of our homeland every morning at school. I sang of its marvels with my classmates at assembly programs. I eagerly observed its national holidays, and without giving second thought to
Philip Roth - image from Salon.comSince the election of one Donald J Trump, there has been a booming business in books about fascism, with a particular interest in what it might look like here in the USA.
Substitute an Islamic family today for the Jewish one in Roth’s alt-world to make it really vibrate.Roth was inspired to write the book when he read in Arthur Schlesinger’s autobiography that the more lunatic fringe of the Republican Party had wanted Lindbergh to run.

She shares her husband's ardor for the United States, the Constitution, President Roosevelt, the New Deal and the Democratic Party.Philip recounts how Charles Lindbergh was once a hero in his neighborhood, following the aviator's historic flight from Long Island to Paris aboard the Spirit of St. Louis in 1927.
'All men are created equal.'"While the president praises Hitler as the world's safeguard against the spread of Communism and Germany pushes the Russians east, the Lindbergh administration hits close to home for the Roths by forming the Office of American Absorption and the Just Folks campaign, a "mentoring" program for select Jewish boys aged twelve to eighteen offering eight weeks with a sponsor family to learn farming.
How long will Americans remain asleep while their cherished Constitution is torn to shreds?" Not a big fan of alternative history at all, even though thought experiments like Harris' Fatherland create an atmosphere of chilling excitement, I was skeptical when I started on this bestseller.
Seeing America in the hypnotised grip of a fascist leader seems less and less like an "alternative history" to me, and I have to acknowledge Roth's political instincts.
It is well-written and exciting, and has some vintage Rothisms.BUT.It is not as good as his other novels, unfortunately, and compared with himself, Roth loses ground in this story which would be a less talented writer's masterpiece.
I cannot tell a lie. George WashingtonWE'VE COME A LONG WAY, BABY!1 star bonus (lifting it from 4 stars) in 2018 { козырь }From The Plot Against America  “The pompous son of a bitch knows everything. It's too bad he doesn't know anything else.” "--nor had I understood til then how the shameless vanity of utter fools can so strongly determine the fate of others” “How can people like these be in charge of our country? If I didn’t see it with my own eyes, I’d think I was having a hallucination.” Ph
If I didn’t see it with my own eyes, I’d think I was having a hallucination.” Philip Roth, The Plot Against America  Roth's convincing tale of an alternate U.S. history has been made all the more plausible by recent events.
HBO orders six episodes in November 2018, after almost a year of negotiations.Damnably timely today, 27 October 2018, after the Tree of Life shooting.This book should be as high on your TBR as 1984, Animal Farm, Snowball's Chance, and Christian Nation are already.
I hope they are, anyway.2018 UPDATE The book is going to be a miniseries!
Now go read the article, because Philip Roth does a 45 takedown that made me guffaw in agony.Rating: 4* of fiveIn my quest for article-fodder, I reread this book.
The slow descent into thuggish public behavior as the new norm, the collective "meh, so what" from those not affected, the disbelieving helplessness of the affected...Roth nailed it.
President Roosevelt is campaigning for a 3rd term in office.Then Roth throws a monkey wrench into the works, presenting an alternative universe where, instead of facing off with and defeating Wendell Willkie, FDR is confronted with and defeated by the intensely popular Charles Lindbergh.
With their flyboy hero at America's helm, the isolationist Republicans as well as the Nazis themselves can use Lindbergh as a tool to meet their ends.
FDR did believe Charles Lindbergh to be a Nazi.
Roth shares his suburban American-Jewish upbringing at the height of Jewish persecution in the modern age and it is a joy to read.
While I have appreciated the books of his I have read, they are often very heavy, and I can only take them in small doses.
If you have, read it again, because I think living through these dark days, the book will make a deeper impression on you.
As to the writing, pacing, and all the usual things we mention in reviews, I don’t think that it’s necessary to delve into all that.
It’s Phillip Roth.
But, what does bear mentioning is, for me, next to ‘The Human Stain’ this book is the best Roth novel, I have read, to date.5 stars
Young Philip, 7, is inspired by his father’s opposition to both Hitler and Lindberg, as is his cousin Alvy, who actually enlists with The Canadian Army (because Lindberg fulfills his promise of America First—that isolationism—and doesn’t allow the US military to fight Germany) and loses his leg in France, thereby getting Philip’s rich uncles to blame Philip’s father for that, for even wanting to fight Hitler’s fascism in Europe.
I don't usually do this, but I'm halfway through this book and I want to write a review of my progress so far.
The thought has crossed my mind a couple times in the first 200 pages to put the book down.
Instead it's a [fabricated:] autobiography of Philip Roth, then a 9-year-old Jewish boy growing up in Newark, set in an America where Republican Lindbergh defeated FDR in the 1940 election.
One sinister thing the Lindbergh administration has done is introduce the Office of American Absorption [OAA:], which sounds like it belongs in the alphabet soup of FDR's New Deal.
We'll see what the final 200 pages hold.------------------------------------Well, I finished the book.
How can this be happening in America? How can people like these be in charge of our country? If I didn't see it with my own eyes, I'd think I was having a hallucination.There's a plot afoot all right, and I'll gladly name the forces propelling it - hysteria, ignorance, malice, stupidity, hatred, and fear. What a repugnant spectacle our country has become! Falsehood, cruelty, and madness everywhere, and brute force in the wings waiting to finish us off.
I found it unconvincing because Roth never takes the trouble to show us how the America in his novel comes to embrace fascism.
All events are seen from the perspective of the narrator, an alternate world Philip Roth, aged nine, living with his family in a tight-knit Jewish community more or less isolated by choice from the rest of white America.
This choice of perspective is severely limiting not only because of the nine-year old child’s limited understanding of events but because it is a viewpoint confined to that of a working class family living in a wholly Jewish community.
And kind of like Harry Turtldove's books, Roth is not dealing too much with the actual history and consequences of the twist of events.
And it is because of these underlying views that Roth seeks to throw a mirror up to ourselves and question how close we came to having our own (Final) "American Solution." The only thing that kept this from being 5 stars was the weakening of an exposition of "events" towards the end.
Read this book with an open mind and with a mind on our own dark history in mind.
I have loved every Philip Roth novel I’ve read so far: he has a way of punching me in the guts with his words, of creating such vividly real characters and putting me right in their shoes… I hesitated picking this one up because current events echo the story a little too much for my taste, but I was morbidly curious to see how Roth had imagined a fascist America.
That being said, I wish I had read it a couple of years ago, because reading “The Plot Against America” right now makes it impossible to separate the story on the page from the current American political situation.
He lives in Newark with his older brother, who's completely enamored with Charles Lindbergh; his righteous father, who's convinced the new president is an American Hitler; and his long- suffering mother, who struggles to hold her family together as the nation is ripped apart.In a voice that blends the tones of the author's nostalgia with the boy's innocence, Phil describes the national crisis through its effect on his own family.
A racist in the White House? Really? A demagogue turning America into a fascist nation? Come on! That’s a little too far fetched, don’t you think?I admit I didn’t know much about Charles Lindbergh except for his flight across the Atlantic, his anti-Semitic attitudes, his three-fold “polygamy”, and the kidnapping and murder of the Lindbergh baby. What I didn’t know, for instance, was the fact that he was also spokesperson of the first  America First Movement  and about the public speeches he held
‘All men are created equal.’” “But that doesn’t mean all hotel reservations are created equal.” The policeman’s voice carried to the bystanders at the edge of the lobby; unable any longer to control themselves, some of them laughed aloud.This is a relatively small issue, and the Roths later found another accommodation, but it already shows how the people on the street are beginning to handle Jews from now on, after the new president sets an example by his speeches.
Sandy comes to blows with his father when he suddenly starts to speak of Jews as “you people” to which his father replies: “I told you already about the dirty words, and now I’m telling you about this ‘you people’ business.
According to Grandma, America -- despite its checks-and-balances system, despite its Bill of Rights -- would become a nation in which people will consume lies like cookies and embrace the "stuff of our nightmares." To a twelve-year-old who had never lived under a sky darkened by the ashes of Jews, Grandma Flo's predictions seemed preposterous.
Thirteen years before THE Donald became President of the US, Philip Roth, in The Plot Against America, imagined Charles Lindbergh in the White House -- the Lindbergh (aviator-hero) who wrote in a 1939 journal entry that we must "guard ourselves against attack by foreign armies and dilution by foreign races.
Like the boy narrator-protagonist (named Philip Roth) of The Plot Against America, millions of people now "under[stand].
A tour de force (and also sort of tour de [dark] farce) that is at turns funny and scary and moving, it is an alternate history novel exploring “what if” isolationist and anti-Semitic aviation hero Charles Lindberg had actually defeated FDR in 1940, running on an anti-war platform, and had made a pact with Hitler, whose tyranny—unimpeded by the USA as a key Allie—then continued unabated.
This book has political targets, but it is also a love letter to his good, liberal, working-class parents.“How can this be happening in America?”—Philip’s motherDid Roth in 2005 have in mind a cautionary tale for America’s future?
Lindbergh defeated Franklin Roosevelt by a landslide in the 1940 presidential election, fear invaded every Jewish household in America.Opening: FEAR PRESIDES over these memories, a perpetual fear.
Lindbergh, America's international aviation hero, by the Republican Convention at Philadelphia - my father was thirty-nine, an insurance agent with a grade school education, earning a little under fifty dollars a week, enough for the basic bills to be paid on time but for little more.Hah!
And man, what a doozy to start out with, because it so perfectly captures the entire zeitgeist of the Bush years, despite the plot being a science-fictiony "alternative history" one; because, see, for those who don't know, what this book posits is a world where Nazi sympathizer Charles Lindbergh becomes President of the US in 1940 instead of Franklin Roosevelt, and instead of going to war actually works out a non-aggression pact with the Axis powers.
) to be one of the essential titles of the early 2000s, one of the books that will help explain to future generations just what it was like to live under the Bush regime.
And when famous journalist Walter Winchell, leader among the holdouts, gets dumped from his radio program, in a last ditch effort to speak truth, he writes what turns out to become a much-reviled final newspaper column: “The Lindbergh fascists .
and the snooty Park Avenue proprietors of the gutless New York Times aren’t the first ultracivilized Jewish Quislings to grovel before an anti-Semitic master because they’re just too, too refined to fight like Winchell .
(242)Things deteriorate, Americans are fighting each other, and New York City’s Mayor La Guardia decries the gossip and innuendo that have become truth:  “To have enslaved America with this hocus-pocus!
Roth imagines a world where Lindbergh became President in 1940 and then proceded to collaborate with the Nazis. He says this has nothing to do with George Bush, but I found it impossible not think of parallels. Like all late Roth, very nicely written.
When fascism comes to America it will be wrapped in the flag and carrying a cross. This was a difficult book to read. Not because the writing was poor or obtuse, but because the subject matter was so sensitive. It also didn't help that there are more than a few unsettling parallels between the events in this book and what is currently unfolding on the American political landscape.So the premise of the book is pretty straight forward: Charles Lindbergh, notorious racist/anti-Semite, Nazi sympath
It also didn't help that there are more than a few unsettling parallels between the events in this book and what is currently unfolding on the American political landscape.So the premise of the book is pretty straight forward: Charles Lindbergh, notorious racist/anti-Semite, Nazi sympathizer, and national hero (not necessarily in that order), ends up running against FDR in the 1940 election on the platform of keeping America out of WWII at all costs.
Describing The Plot Against America sort of sounds like the beginning of a bad joke..."what do you get when you take FDR, and swap him out with Charles Lindbergh...I think it would go a little something like this...(insert 400-page punchline)." Since the scenario that he lays out is slightly feasible and extremely specific (Nazi-friendly US government...how many possibilities are there, really?), the results are about what you would expect.
All the same, this novel is a nice little history lesson and a somber warning against extreme isolationism, among other things.
For that (and many other things about this novel), I applaud you, Mr Roth.
Roth foca-se assim mais sobre a possibilidade de um regime fascista poder tomar conta da “Terra da Liberdade”, transportando alguns dos eventos ocorridos na Europa para os EUA.O livro tem a particularidade de fundir de forma muito rica o real e o ficcional alternativo, no sentido em que todos os intervenientes políticos são figuras reais da história americana, ao que se junta o facto da personagem principal, responsável por relatar o que está a acontecer, ser o próprio Philip Roth, na sua infância, dos 7 aos 9 anos.
This book also served as a sort of stupidity graph for me, highlighting where my knowledge of early 20th century American History and Politics has a gaping hole.
Well, the hole in my knowledge is probably about the size of the car swallowing hole which is still quite sizeable.
Note: This book will not confuse you at all if you know your actual history/ are American/ live in America/ Are over the age of 65!I have enjoyed all the Philip Roth books I've read (introduced to him through the joys of the 1001 books to read before you die list)and this one was no exception.
"La storia è tutto ciò che accade dappertutto."Si supponga per assurdo che non sia Franklin Delano Roosvelt a divenire presidente degli Stati uniti nel 1940, ma lo divenga Lindbergh, filonazista, isolazionista, antisemita.Si supponga che in quegli anni al potere stiano i simpatizzanti di un movimento (peraltro realmente esistito) che si chiama American First Committe.Non è difficile immaginare dove conduca il percorrere di questa ipotesi.Roth punta l'obiettivo su un nucleo famigliare ebreo ed in particolare sui pensieri del più piccolo dei rappresentati di questa famiglia, che casualmente si chiama Philip Roth, all'accadere della vita sua e di chi gli sta intorno.La storia in sé è credibile, i personaggi ben costruiti, il clima cupo e opprimente.
Even though this alternate version of American history, written in 2003, is fiction, it eerily mirrors our situation of 2017, down to a foreign government having a say in who is America's president.
And also his wife who published her third book subtitled "A Confession of Faith" which immediately became the top nonfiction bestseller, despite it being coined as " the Bible of every American Nazi"And last but not least : Henry Ford, who said, "I know who caused the war.
This person who knew his "facts" also said, "I don't like to read books, they muss up my mind.
This novel, written by Pulitzer Prize winning author Philip Roth, is an alt-history story of a young boy growing up in Newark, NJ when the virulently anti-Semitic Charles Lindbergh is elected president in place of Roosevelt in 1940.
There's this core to the novel that's about seeing all of this destruction and thinking that the problem is that he's Jewish, not that people can be full of hate and anger.
There's an emotionally difficult moment (for me, at least) when he looks at his mom and realizes that she looks Jewish; that she looks like all of the stereotypes from skin to hair to a big nose.
