https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6596.The_Four_Agreements
This is a book that challenges one to live up to four simple truths, and offers transformational results if one could live a life completely engaged in the four agreements.
So it helps to remind myself by the constant reread.I am not reading with a hope that I will attain some mystical state, but I read because I find the author's explanation of how our mind, our society, and importantly, our relationships work to be insightful, even though it is based on a paradigm that is completely outside my heritage of growing up in a small New England town.
Ruiz does a good job of helping these concepts become clearer.Reading this book, I have started to formulate a good answer to a question that originally began in childhood.
(As my husband and I did by page 16!)Another friend told me that the ideas in this book reminded her of things she's heard before and gave as an example You Are Special, a great children's book by Max Lucado.
But, for me, as a Christian, I felt that these concepts were not only familiar but succinctly summed up in "love one another" and "try to be like Jesus."I really didn't like the book, but I suppose that I don't have to worry about the author taking it personally!
I'd like to propose this book as required reading for the course, Life.
Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others.
With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life.4.
Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse, and regret.What I love about this book* It's a short, captivating read.
I love the efficiency of receiving so much thought-provocation in so little time.* The agreements are applicable to everyone, everywhere, regardless of religion, gender, age, etc.* Stories, anecdotes and examples from various beliefs are intertwined throughout, spotlighting their common bottom lines: love, life and peace.Possibly the most life-changing book I've ever read.
And as you practice your impeccable word don't you think the very actions which might have caused you to judge and blame yourself before will decrease and it will become easier to truly know the difference between taking responsibility and punishing yourself (over and over again).2.
If you know who you are and are impeccable with your word (i.e.: being yourself, not going against yourself) then you will get better and better at not allowing others to shape how you feel about yourself.
You hear someone explaining their situation and as they are you are summarizing it in your own words in your head, filling in blanks because you want to have the complete picture.
This book might just change my life.I'll hand the rest of this review over to David Foster Wallace:"It seems to me that the intellectualization and aestheticizing of principles and values in this country is one of the things that's gutted our generation.
All the things that my parents said to me, like 'It's really important not to lie.' OK, check, got it.
That seems to me like something our generation needs to feel."
There is some amazing advise in this little book and I can see how it can be life changing for many people.But.I'm going to be honest and admit that Ruiz almost lost me at "Everything is God" in the introduction.
While his writing style made me vomit a little in my mouth, still he meant well and has assuredly encouraged many on the path to happiness.I would add, it is my personal belief that our reason for being- our purpose on earth is to learn to be happy.
The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom, A Toltec Wisdom Book, Miguel RuizThe Four Agreements, was published in 1997 and has sold around 5.2 million copies in the U.S. and has been translated into 38 languages.
The book advocates personal freedom from beliefs and agreements that we have made with ourselves and others that are creating limitation and unhappiness in our lives.
از قوانین شخصی، قضاوت‌های درونی، و خشونت‌هایی که نسبت به خود نشان می‌دهیم، گفتگو می‌شود و چهار پیشنهاد (میثاق) برای بهبود کیفیت زندگی و سعادت ارائه‌ میکند.
میثاق دوم؛ هیچ‌چیز را به خود نگیرید (شش روش برای ناراحتی کم‌تر از اطرافیان).
Change the way you speak and, Ruiz claims, your life will follow.The second agreement is: "Whatever people do, feel, think, or say, don't take it personally.
It has actually been world-changing for me: to realize how many stories I make up because I'm bored or confused or simply don't know what someone else is thinking.
I can't control the uncontrollable, I can only do the best I can with what I've got in front of me.The Four Agreements may help readers live in the now and experience life as it is rather than as they've imagined it to be.
Ruiz divides his book into four major steps, so-called 'agreements' which you have to adapt to in order to successfully change your life for the best, according to him.
He also offers lengthy explanations and nonfictional examples to support those agreements.Miguel Ruiz used to work as a surgeon until a near-death-experience convinced him of changing his life and delving into the deepest parts of himself, parts of which can be found in this book.
I am going to give this book 4 stars since Ruiz' prose is incredibly readable, and his basic ideas and concepts resonate well with my own perceptions.
*shrug*I'm going to try to boil this down for you and strip out the woo-woo so you can really understand what Ruiz is getting at.He is basically saying that you should live your life by four agreements:1.) Be impeccable with your word.
SINCE IT'S HARD TO TAKE THINGS PERSONALLY WHEN YOU'RE DEAD.I don't know, I feel like the author is sometimes taking this too far....3.) Don't make assumptions.
If we try to change them, this means we don't really like them.Yes, I already know this and live it.
Trivial introduction to New Age ethics with a large side order of third-rate, rancid leftovers from Jean-Jacques Rousseau, all written for a third-grade reading comprehension.Considering that the first agreement is "be impeccable with your word," it's ironic and even more horrifying that the words in this book are so lazy, careless, contradictory, infantile, incoherent, and devoid of integrity.Miguel Ruiz thinks that the ideal human is--get this--a toddler: If we see a child who is two or three, perhaps four years old, we find a free human.
چهار میثاق، کتابی است که خِرَد سرخپوستان تولتِک را به زبانی ساده توضیح میدهد. در این کتاب از قوانین شخصی، قضاوتهای درونی و خشونتهایی که نسبت به خود نشان میدهیم، صحبت میشود و چهار پیشنهاد (میثاق) برای بهبود کیفیت زندگی و سعادت ارائهشده است.این کتاب نوشتۀ دون میگوئل روئیز، نویسندۀ مکزیکی است که برای مدت طولانی پزشک و جراح بوده و پس از تصادفی که از آن زنده مانده، تصمیم میگیرد برای آموزههای شامنی، نزد مادربزرگ خود برود. شامن در فرهنگ سرخپوستان به فردی گفته میشود که راهنمای دیگران برای رهایی از محدود
اگر من فکر می‌کنم زمانی که با دوستم تماس می‌گیرم، ممکن است فکر کند من تنها هستم و حوصله‌ام سر رفته و ازاین‌رو با او تماس گرفته‌ام، این فقط تصورات ذهنی من است، نه آنچه که او می‌اندیشد.اگر دیگران چیزی به ما بگویند، بر اساس آن تصوراتی می‌کنیم، و اگر چیزی نگویند، سلسله تصوراتی می‌کنیم تا نیاز به دانستن خود را ارضا کنیم و آن تصورات را جانشین نیاز خود به ارتباط برقرار کردن نماییم.– دون میگوئل روئیز، چهار میثاقمیثاق چهارم؛ همیشه بیشترین تلاشتان را بکنیداین میثاق برای یادآوری و تمرین سه میثاق قبل است.
The near-death experience woke Ruiz to the teachings of his people, The Totecs, and thus renewed his original commitment to learn the Four Agreements.This book spoke to me on a universal level because its principles are in harmony with the methodology of many other transformational techniques, and most importantly, with God himself.
Ruiz breaks down the four agreements into simple language with spiritual undertones.
He stresses that just doing your best in everything you do will help you keep the other three agreements: 1) Being impeccable with your word, 2) Don't take anything personally, and 3) Don't make assumptions.Reading this book will touch, move, or inspire you with its possibilities for living a powerful and happy life.
اینکه مثلا بدونیم ورزش کردن برای سلامتی مون مفیده و تصمیم بگیریم انجامش بدیم اما هیچ وقت عملی ش نکنیم قطعا نمی تونه هیچ کمکی بهمون بکنه.
اینکه شما یک سری مطلب رو طوطی وار مطالعه کنید، فقط به صرف اینکه کتابی رو خونده باشید ، با اینکه شما همون کتاب رو ذره ذره و با دقت بخونید و به دستورالعمل هاش عمل کنید ، زمین تا آسمون با هم فرق میکنهکتاب چهار میثاق یکی از همین کتاب های خودکمک یاری هست.
کتابی که باید به هر چهار میثاقش عمل کنید تا به خودتون کمک کنید که زندگی بهتر و روحیه ی بالاتری داشته باشید.
I think I will get something different out of it each time.THE FOUR AGREEMENTS:BE IMPECCABLE WITH YOUR WORD.
Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others.
When you are immune to the opinions and actions of others, you won't be the victim of needless suffering.DON'T MAKE ASSUMPTIONS.
Your best is going to change from moment to moment; it will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick.
Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse, and regret.
This book is juvenile. The universally acceptable platitudes that make up the four agreements are the only useful phrases in the book. Every explanation is conclusory, circular, and intentionally unclear. His conclusions aren't drawn from any deductive reasoning or analysis, and nothing rings true. I suppose you could find solace in the book if you wanted to blame your parents and society for your unhappiness, but I am not unhappy and I don't believe that anyone else is responsible for my happiness. Don't waste your time.
I know this little book is the type of cliché self-help item that makes its way to the impulse-purchase-friendly shelves by the registers at Barns and Nobel around Christmas time and subsequently gathers dust on bookshelves across the nation unread by recipients because they are not the "type of person who reads self-help books." But please don't judge this book by it's section.The writing is a bit choppy and the use of repetition can be annoying initially, but the message is completely worth it.
As with any self help type of book you gotta "take some" and "leave some" if you know what I mean?
My brother and I have similar personalities and I can see very much why he gave me this book.
As soon as I read the inside cover I knew this was going to be something that connected with me, my life, and my way of thinking.
The bottom line in this book is that life is all about love---how to give it and receive it.
INSIDE COVER:BE IMPECCABLE WITH YOUR WORD: Speak with integrity.
Avoid using the Word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others.
I think most everyone has read this book .
Basically it tells us to be true to our real selves, look for the good, not bad, live in the moment, not to accept others opinions of you as true.
It becomes much less important to live up to the expectations of others and in my case , it has probably made me speak my mind way too often and too loudly.
I think I'll need to keep this nearby and re- read parts to fully grasp all of it's concepts , not all of which I'm fully on board with yet .
There were a few nuggets that were very enlightening but a lot of unoriginal concepts or overly fluffy statements as well.I found myself thinking "hey, that reminds me of..." very frequently while reading this book.
The book reads like retreads of various scriptures, warm fuzzy stories, and self-help manuals.
Not taking things personally is another not-new self-help idea.
While the concepts behind the language may be accurate I just had a hard time taking it too seriously with language like that.I particularly struggled as a parent reading the first chunk of the book.
کتاب چهار میثاق یک کتاب خودیاریه که شاید حرف جدیدی نزنه ولی از اونجایی که به سبک جدیدی بیانش میکنه م
کتاب چهار میثاق یک کتاب خودیاریه که شاید حرف جدیدی نزنه ولی از اونجایی که به سبک جدیدی بیانش می‌کنه می‌تونه اثرگذار باشه.اوایل کتاب حالت عرفانی داره و در ادامه با چهار تا قانون مواجهیم: با کلام خود گناه نکنید، هیچ چیز را به خود نگیرید، تصورات باطل نکنید، همیشه بیشترین تلاشتان را بکنید.با اینکه این قوانین پیش پا افتاده به نظر می‌رسن اما بخش مهمی از حال خوب یا بد ما رو می‌تونن بسازن و مثال‌های کتاب می‌تونه در عمقی به یاد سپردن و به کار بستنش موثر باشه.شخصا این کتاب رو به مراجع‌هام توصیه خواهم کرد و به نظرم برای همه خوبه این قوانین رو با خودشون مرور کنن.
Promoted as “A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom,” The Four Agreements was not my first choice to read in my spare time.
Upon request of a dear friend, I forcibly attempted this 138-page book mustering somewhat of an open mind.
He opens the book with an old tale about a man calling himself “The Smoky Mirror.” My skepticism nearly gagged at this point, and I was only through the roman numerals of the book pages.
(page 129)As you deduced, this book seemed a shallow journaling of the positive-thinking-movement.
Immerse yourself in the pages of this elementary-level read.
Positives: -It's good to be reminded not to assume why people treat you a certain way.
-I liked the thought that if you shouldn't take negative comments personally, you also shouldn't take positive comments personally.
Trying to believe one side and not the other is contradictory, and our views of ourselves should be maintained on our own.
Seemed kind of like he was trying to take the easy way out instead of actually analyzing why different religions believe different things.
From my studies, it works the other way around since I didn't make the rules.
This quick read was interesting in that I gained a new perspective on how others view the world.
The book itself is quite simply written and very repetitive, and although brief, could have been about 1/8 the length to get the main points across.
Additionally, the book was sprinkled with pot shots at various mainstream religions, but when they lack any substance, that also leaves a bitter taste in my mouth.
I'm glad I read it for insight into others' views, but didn't glean much additional deep insight into the world and was not impressed with the writing.
New age psycho babble that nearly had me giving up, but it was so short I persevered.
The middle part was good how to change your life with the four agreements: speak impeccably, don't take things personally, do your best and some live each moment or something.
Good stuff, but not ground breaking or earth shattering.
We know all this stuff, but it is nice to be reminded and hopefully inspired to do better.
Unfortunately it ended with more new age stuff.
It's sort of a sandwich and just like an Oreo, the best stuff is in the middle.
It's most redeeming quality is that it is very short.
کتاب خوبی بود ، نکاتی که طرح کرده بود البته شاید بشه گفت حرف تازه ای نبود ولی دسته بندی و بیان خوبی داشت. ارزش خوندن رو داشت و به نظرم توان اثر گذاری خوبی هم داشت
Beautiful words, with practical ideas, to live a better life and to have more freedom.
However, I didn't like the book at the first sight, and it took me half of the pages to really immerse myself in it.
The Four Agreements includes the essential principles of life: be impeccable with your word, don't take things personally, don't make assumptions, and always do your best.
Some words to remember: "Action is about living fully.
If we like what we do, if we always do our best, we are really enjoying life.
Forest Gump didn't have great ideas, but he took action.
همانطور که از اسم کتاب پیداست چهار میثاق در کتاب بسته می شود برای رهایی از احساسات منفی که مادر آنها ترس معرفی شده و سرشار کردن خود و زندگی و جهان از عشق.
۱۴-با کلام خود گناه نکنید (۴):غیبت*غیبت زهر خالص است.غیبت یک ویروس ذهنی است.شما با سواستفاده از کلام خود را به دوزخ می افکنید.۱۵- باکلام خود گناه نکنید (۵): غیبتعقیده شما نقطه نظر شماست و الزاما صحیح نیست.واقعیت دریافت تو از واقعیت است.اگر با کلامتان گناه نکنید دیگر با جادوی سیاه کلام دیگران هم طلسم نخواهید شد و ذهنتان برای بذرهای عشق حاصلخیز خواهد شد.شما با عمل به میثاق اول میتوانید خود را از دوزخ رهایی دهید.با کلام خود گناه نکنید.
The Four Agreements are:1.
Be Impeccable with your Word: Speak with integrity.
Avoid using the Word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others.
Use the power of your Word in the direction of truth and love.2.
Don’t Take Anything PersonallyNothing others do is because of you.
Don’t Make AssumptionsFind the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want.
With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life.4.
Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse, and regret.Don't be misled by the smallness of the book or the simplicity of its language.
خیلی لذت بردم چون واسم مثل تلنگر بود. به همچنین گوشزدی احتیاج داشتم و همینطور توی بدترین شرایط روحی خوندمش. واسه همین بیشتر منو وابسته خودش کرد.
