https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31562247-the-fix
I don't feel inspired to write a review, and for pages in this book, I didn't think that Baldacci was inspired with writing The Fix. Face it Baldacci fans, you're used to reading his books that have 500-ish pages.Like usual, the author pulled the fat out of the fire just when things were getting noticeably boring.
Fortunately things improved just when I had abandoned all hopes of a return to form.The Fix is perhaps the only Baldacci book where a cruel death is averted at the end.
But not at the end.
The book didn't suffer for it though.
Investigations seem to be leading nowhere...at first, there seems to be no connection between the two people but soon Decker, with his memory talents, discovers a plot filled with betrayals, family secrets and a lot more than span over a lifetime.The story did start becoming a bit slow and drawn out towards the middle but it draws to the most unexpected and shocking ending that made it worthwhile finishing.Although you can read this book as a standalone, I recommend you read the first two books....Memory Man and The Last Mile....you can read my reviews here ...
....to get a better understanding of how Amos Decker began his new career.A good an solid addition to the series but not as good as the 1st two.
This is the third book in the Amos Decker Series.
I loved the first two books in this series and when I got this from Overdrive I was so excited.
If you are a fan of spy and espionage thrillers, I think you will love this one.
Now will I read the rest of his series?
Of course I will because I loved the first two books!Amos Decker witnesses a murder just in front of the FBI headquarters.
Some of the questions that are asked is Why would Dabney kill a woman in front of the FBI Head Quarters on a crowded street?
Amos Decker is officially one of my favorite book characters, ever!! The story starts off with a "bang" literally and escalates into scary territory. David Baldacci's writing style is unfathomable!! Fantastic book!!
If this had been any other author, I never would have bothered finishing this. For me, extremely repetitious and boring. 2 stars is a gift.
Originally posted on The Book NymphoAmos Decker is walking to the FBI building in Washington DC when he witnesses Walter Dabney, a prominent owner of a government contracting firm, pull out a gun and shoot a woman who was also walking in that vicinity.
Since Decker witnessed the event and the case is handed to the FBI, the task force is given the assignment.
Unlike the first two books, the task force is investigating a hot case instead of a cold one.
I loved that the clues were all there for me to deduce much of it on my own (along with a lot of help from Decker).What I truly loved about this book was the relationship elements.
Personally, haven't I read the first book yet (although I'm eyeing right now since it's on my desk waiting to be read).Amos Decker and his team have a new case, a man shoots and kills a woman outside FBI headquarters and then he shoots himself.
What I love about this book not only the strange case, but small things like Marvin Mars showing up in the story and Decker and Jamison moving in together as roommates in a building that Mars bought.
That doesn't mean that I did not enjoy reading the book, but some twist were just a bit too obvious...I want to thank the publisher for providing me with a free copy for an honest review!
Oh, and it’s changed the way he sees colors.After a career as a police detective, a very personal case he worked on caught the eye of some people who made Decker an offer to use his unique skills and abilities to solve cold cases for the FBI as part of a newly-formed special task force.
So, ignoring Brown’s orders, Decker and his team keep working the case and eventually uncover a massive conspiracy that quickly becomes much bigger than anything Amos Decker has tackled before.David Baldacci, with more than 110 million copies of his books in print around the world, has finally hit his stride with this series.
The first 2 books in this series were inspired and I was totally expecting the 3rd to continue that standard. Unfortunately it was not to be. The writing was pedestrian, the dabney character was tedious and it all felt a bit dreary. Deckers synesthsia was barely mentioned in this book, just a passing reference and too much emphasis was put on his flicking memory frames. I found it dull and unlike the other books which I devoured I struggled to read this until the end.
Unfortunately, Decker's hyperthymesia doesn't allow him to dim the memories of his dead wife and child, who were murdered a few years ago.
On the upside, Decker's phenomenal memory helped him in his career as a police detective, and he now works for the FBI.....on a team that investigates crimes.
Dabney's wife and daughters are unable to provide any information about the tragedy.
Decker's team is in the midst of investigating the Dabney murder/suicide when Agent Harper Brown from the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) waltzes in, says she's taking over the case for national security reasons, and demands all the FBI's files.
The second half is much better than the first, likely because of uninteresting and unappealing characters. All in all, a less than average effort from Baldacci. 6 of 10 stars
3.5I usually don’t like to read espionage or political thrillers, but this one grabbed my attention from the start. But midway through it became a bit boring and there were some unnecessary scenes, which could have been omitted.Amos Decker witnesses a murder-suicide in front of the FBI headquarters and is determined to find out why a seemingly respected family-man would shoot a school teacher, with whom he didn’t have any connection.This was an intriguing and well written book, with well developed characters.
3.5 Incredible hook at the beginning, right on the first page! Incredible denouement at the end! The surprising ending was absolutely stunning and, therefore, the bump in stars. However, in the middle it became frustratingly slow and drawn out. I love the Amos Decker character and his thought processes. To fully enjoy and understand this character and series, you need to read the series from the beginning.
DNFed at 31%. This book is written like CRAP. Show, don't tell! I'll never be reading Baldacci again, if all his books are drivel like this one. Best part: "why is there toilet paper in a house where the plumbing doesn't work? A-HA! There's a hidden key and a flash drive inside the spring gasket. Of course! I knew it!" ARE YOU KIDDING ME.
Rating: 3.5 starsThe Fix by David Baldacci is the third book in the Amos Decker series.
For me reading a Baldacci book is like going home – you know what to expect and you never leave disappointed.In this latest installment, like the previous book, Amos is still working for the FBI.
I enjoy Baldacci’s short chapter style, I always feel like I am flying through the book and it keeps the story moving at a quicker pace.
That speaks volumes as to how much I enjoy David Baldacci’s writing.For more book reviews: https://readingbetweenthepagesblog.wo...Twitter: https://twitter.com/TinaWoodbury2
4.5*Seriously loving this series! This is the third installment of the Amos Decker series and it is full of mystery and becomes one amazing spy thriller. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I’m going to read the Will Robie series then read the Fallen because I know I will miss Amos Decker and his supporting cast if I read Fallen right now. 😭🤣My quick and simple overall: fast-paced and full of mystery. Loved the spy angle.
Perhaps a 3.5 star rating on this occasion.David Baldacci surfaces with another Amos Decker fast-paced thriller, keeping readers hooked from its explosive start through to the final, lingering sentences.
Usually handed cold cases, the team turns its attention to the murder of Anne Berkshire at the hands of one Walter Dabney.
In D.C., nothing is as it seems, leaving Decker to hope he can get to the root cause and bring closure to the Dabney family, whose shock grows with each new piece of information.
While Decker's backstory has been revealed in the previous two novels, there are moments of reflection that provide new insight for the reader.
I understand this is only the third book in the series but i have to admit it’s the most disappointing and poorly written.
A disruptive page fillermore so than the prior novels, Decker came off quite arrogant in this storyline.
Ive come to expect his Hercule Poirot “I know who dunnit in the half the time you all do” but the Big Reveal was so lazy and contained I wasn’t wowed by him or It. Perhaps I was too excited about Book 3 and overhyped my own expectation.
Amos Decker is still my favorite Baldacci series.
This was definitely not one of my favorite Baldacci books.
It starts out with a bang and really grabbed my attention from the beginning.
But then about midway through it just started to get boring and tedious for me.
It just seemed like there were too many forced plot twists that weren't really all that shocking and didn't add much to the story for me.If you haven't read any of his other books, don't let this one be your gauge -- this is definitely on the lower end of the scale and most of his other books are a lot better than this one was.For me, The Fix could have been fixed with the old less is more adage.
The book was good, story line was brilliant got me hooked from the start but after crossing half the book i felt there was many unwanted stuffs added to the book, the ending was swift and clean. And the twists, the author tried to make plot twist at every chapter but nothing was remarkable. Overall the book could have been shorter.
This is the 33rd book that I've read by this author.
David Baldacci is by far my most read male author.
I've enjoyed his books.
There were parts of this that felt like 4 stars for me, and other parts that had me rolling my eyes.
So I'll settle for 3 stars.
What I like the most about his stories in general are the intricate story lines.
I also like the characters.
I like that the MC isn't the standard cliche for this genre.I think where I struggled was that his brain injury doesn't translate well into the believable realm.
So 3 stars.
The Fix is yet another excellent Amos Decker story.
David Baldacci has been knocking it out of the park with this series and The Fix is no exception.
Amos Decker does his Rainman stuff - awesome deductions coupled with being mildly sociopathic.
The story has multiple layers (like an onion and Shrek); with every mystery being solved, there are a couple more which come out into the open.
I was mite disappointed with the ending though - for which I knocked off a star - since it focuses on the usual US terror BS.
This makes this a Camel Club/Will Robie ending instead of an Amos Decker one.
Amos Decker Book 3.
He is in a coffee shop outside FBI headquarters when he sees a guy shoot a seemingly random woman to death and then kill himself with the same weapon.
Amos is working with his usual team although we see very little of anyone but his partner, ex-reporter, Alex Jamison.
We do get to see Melvin Mars return along with the introduction of a female NSA spook, who is involved because the killer is a significant military systems contractor.
Unraveling the killer's many motivations and messages, including nasty family secrets, takes too long, and there is much excess dialogue that could have been eliminated.
Amos and his team try figure why a govt. contractor kills a woman and himself in front of the Hoover building.
In Washington D.C., a crazy man, Walter Dabney kills a random woman, Anne Berkshire, then commits suicide outside the FBI headquarters - the Hoover Building. Was it a woman in the wrong place at the wrong time? Why did Dabney kill Berkshire & then himself? Hoover Building - FBI headquartersEnter FBI detective Alex Jamison & her partners, Amos Decker, Todd Milligan & Ross Bogart. (Jamison & Decker are the lead detectives)In the beginning, a crazy & funny part of the story is D
In Washington D.C., a crazy man, Walter Dabney kills a random woman, Anne Berkshire, then commits suicide outside the FBI headquarters - the Hoover Building.
Hoover Building - FBI headquartersEnter FBI detective Alex Jamison & her partners, Amos Decker, Todd Milligan & Ross Bogart.
But why kill in front of the FBI building?(view spoiler)[Look for the co-worker or family member familiar to their spy ring activity....
3 stars.Review to come.
The main story focuses on following Amos and Alex as they develop leads, using Amos’s insightful thoughts forming theories as to how unfolding events fit into their investigation.The author bring several support characters both good and bad into his toryline giving his readers details of each characters’ history and the roles they play as he introduces them to the storyline.
Readers are kept on the edge of their seats as they follow details of Amos’s ability to reconstruct situations and revisit different events in his mind, coming up with logical conclusions that keep the storyline moving forward.THE FIX builds intrigue from the very beginning and takes readers behind the scenes of two federal agencies’ investigations.
This story has a strong start, but leaves you wondering if you are still keen to finish the book and have the secret revealed after the first 50-100 pages. The readers will be awarded with a big twist only if they keep reading the book until the very end.Baldacci is of course a renowned author in this genre, but I would not say ‘The Fix’ is among his best works.
Excellent read!! Intrigue, humor, great character development, exceptional & terrific read from a Master!!!! Loved everything about this book & Decker is one of the best characters yet! A murder-suicide, right in front of the FBI building, broad daylight, many witnesses including Decker.... It just gets better from there... Enjoy!
about a murder that happened on a crowded sidewalk in of the Hoover Building, and right in front of Amos Decker. The case seems closed to most as a man shot a woman dead then killed himself. Amos thinks more is involved and works to figure out why it happened.
