https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3636.The_Giver
The book also suggests a creche, but lacking similarity to any real-world system, it doesn't work as a political criticism.Lowry creates this artificial world to suit her purposes, but it is not a symbolic exercise like 'Animal Farm'.
'People are good, except the ones I don't like' is not a moral basis, nor is it a good message to send to kids.If the specialness is only based on fitting in with a certain moral and social guideline, then Lowry isn't praising individuality, she's praising herd behavior.
And of course, the baby Gabe.Every year, as we read the book out loud together, I am amazed at details the students notice (things I've missed the previous 15 times), or questions they raise that lead to further insights for not just the class but ME.
My God, the things they come up with, that I as an English major, or even me if I'd read this with a book club, could never have gone that far in depth.As I began to more fully understand the book over the years, I was better able to guide their discussions, which helped them think more deeply about the book, and made me appreciate the book even more.
Self is an illusion, and leads to pain; desire and agency are dangerous, so we should give them up and join the cosmic oneness "enlightenment" to find a utopia without pain.
Choice, agency, adversity, love, desire, and real pleasure are dangerous, they can lead to pain, but without them life has no purpose.
Purpose comes from overcoming adversity.
Yes, you could choose poorly, and that could lead to pain, choice is dangerous, but without it, life has no meaning, it is colorless.
I feel like I got the quick campfire version.Finally, while I appreciate it's overall message about the importance of individual differences, human emotion, etc., I felt like the book was a bit heavy-handed with its moral.
It also doesn't present alternative possibilities (such as a world without Sameness but also without war, a world without Release but also without starvation, etc.) -- the choice is either here (with Sameness and no color) or Elsewhere (with pain and suffering).When teaching the book, I also felt it was very important for students to understand how this heavy-handed moral (that most of us would agree with somewhat) demonstrates Lowry's (and our own) privilege.
*******SPOILER ALERT*******“I don't know what you mean when you say 'the whole world' or 'generations before him.'I thought there was only us. I thought there was only now.”  Read the book, watch the movie, experience the synergy. We don’t live in a dystopian world, but we do have a growing number of our population who believe that all that exists is NOW, that history is irrelevant, and that there is no future. It simplifies existence when a person can convince themselves of this. No need to lea
The life without colour, pain or past.” When Jonas turns twelve he, like every other twelve year old, is assigned his life’s work.
And he was angry at himself, that he could not change that for them.” SAMENESS eliminates pain, discrimination, desire, pride, ambition, choice, thinking, and all the other things that make us uniquely human.
Regardless of how everyone feels about this book, I would hope that most people come away from reading it feeling a little better about life as it is now, and also realize the importance of a remembered past and a hopeful future.
What I really enjoyed from this book , the reason why I gave it 4.5 stars is because there were some moments described so beautifully and full of energy and life.Somehow they made me think about life and all things that it has , the nice , the cruel , the dreams , the goals , the feels , everything and how beautiful it is.I'm not this emotional but I must say that they were some sentences that are worth reading over and over again.This book also shows how life would be without colors, emotions, without the fun of it.It sucks!
If release took place in some conscious state of mind, then surely the dispensers of Justice, the Nurturers, the Caregivers, and the sanitation workers would all know the lie, and all suspect – as Jonas did – that they were being lied to as well.
We are given to believe that they are worried about overpopulation and starvation, and yet also that most of the world is empty and uninhabited or that this inherently xenophobic community lives in isolation if in fact it doesn’t span the whole of the Earth.
I read this book previously in middle school for English class and was still able to appreciate it almost a decade later.The Giver is a story that sticks with many of us as it is often a part of required reading in school.
Though it was published after many famous dystopian stories of similar nature, I feel The Giver succeeds in resonating with younger readers and challenging them to think critically about society in a way many others cannot.Reading as an adult though, I do feel I enjoyed it less.
Woah, I can easily understand why such a grand amount of people loved this book and definitely see why many were not satisfied with the movie.
After all, it is of The Giver that I shall talk about and my time spent reading the story was definitely not wasted – hence the four star rating – even if not what I anticipated.
I am completely in favour of it since it can bring such a peaceful atmosphere to stories and make the reader easily understand every detail written.
They were there, and I was aware of them, but never let any of those weaknesses keep me from enjoying my read.
This book should be required reading for everyone with the emotional maturity to handle it!
Very few things leave me mentally stuttering as I struggle to put my thoughts into words, but, somehow, The Giver has done just that.
although I suppose it could be for those who read books without truly experiencing them, but I don't know how to do that, so for me it was a painful experience.
I don't know that I would have read it had I known how real Jonas's and the Giver's pain would be to me.
Yesterday, I took a road trip with my two daughters to get pick up my 88 year-old grandmother, who will be staying with us through the holiday season.
I was completely lost in these stories, as were my children.The first book that we listened to was 'The Giver'.
They are shells, robotic in their day to day existence and devoid of emotion.Although this is a children's book, it had a feeling eerily similar to George Orwell's '1984'.
Luckily, I think most of that went over the head of my 5 year-old.Overall, I thought that this was a spectacular book!
Man oh man, for a children's book...Lowry certainly didn't pull any punches. Jonas lives in a perfectly perfect world. Every family has one mother, one father, one girl and one boy. Families always get along, the parents never disagree, no one has any secrets. Everyone contributes to society equally. No one is outraged, angry, sad.  The life where nothing was ever unexpected. Or inconvenient. Or unusual. The life without colour, pain or past.  However what appears perfect on the surface hides a
Jonas lives in a perfectly perfect world.
All emotions are suppressed, children are taken from "birth mothers," and defected individuals are "released." His society is alive but not living.
Jonas is ready to undergo the ceremony of twelves (during which are children born in the same year 'age' to the next level).
Soon Jonas learns that the Giver holds the collected memories of the societies long since past and passes it along to the next generation.
The worst part of holding the memories is not the pain.
What I see now is a story about growing up and confronting the world outside of the safe haven of childhood.Well, yes, of course, it *IS* a dystopian tale about a young boy growing up in the commune of sameness that is devoid of colors or intense feelings or individuality - and the said boy has an unusual ability to experience what the others are missing out on, and he selflessly sets out to bring that experience to others at the cost of his own life, likely, and you can see it as an ode to individuality over sameness, written shortly after the end of the Cold War. But let's focus on the other aspects first, and worry about this later.

My Reaction After Reading This: 2 starsWhoa?Why?Really?SO FIRST OFF I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT I REALLY REALLY REALLY WANTED TO LIKE THIS BOOK SINCE MANY HUMAN BEINGS READ AND LOVE THIS BOOK AND MANY HAVE CONSIDERED THIS AS ONE OF THEIR FAVORITE BOOKS OF ALL TIME AND BEFORE I POSTED MY RATING I BROWSE THE RATINGS OF OTHER GR MEMBERS SO THAT I KNOW THAT I'M NOT THE ONLY ABNORMAL HUMAN BEING WHO DOESN'T THINK THAT THIS BOOK IS GOOD OR GREAT OR WHATEVER!!!(*coughs* sorry I forgot to turn off the CAPS
2 starsWhoa?Why?Really?SO FIRST OFF I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT I REALLY REALLY REALLY WANTED TO LIKE THIS BOOK SINCE MANY HUMAN BEINGS READ AND LOVE THIS BOOK AND MANY HAVE CONSIDERED THIS AS ONE OF THEIR FAVORITE BOOKS OF ALL TIME AND BEFORE I POSTED MY RATING I BROWSE THE RATINGS OF OTHER GR MEMBERS SO THAT I KNOW THAT I'M NOT THE ONLY ABNORMAL HUMAN BEING WHO DOESN'T THINK THAT THIS BOOK IS GOOD OR GREAT OR WHATEVER!!!(*coughs* sorry I forgot to turn off the CAPSLOCK, I'm not shouting or anything *coughs* just please don't judge me *coughs* if you like the book, I respect you for that, but I really can't force myself into believing I like this book _(>.<)V)Okay I'll try to explain what I don't like about it:1.
So stirrings for those who haven't read the book is somewhat closer to wet dreams.10.
and as he takes in those memories, he gradually comes to realize that his idyllic little community is not so utopic after all.do you remember the first time you realized that other people had their own lives - ones entirely apart from you, that have nothing to do with you whatsoever?
my favorite parts of this children's book were those points where young Jonas puts himself in other's shoes, tries to understand the motivations of his friends & family & community, angrily rejects the choices that some make, and experiences empathetic connections with The Giver (whose job he is taking over) - his failed but brave predecessor, and the baby Gabriel.
The style of the wording pleased me very much.
So much that it threatened to engulf my perception of the story.
I liked the book's plot, but what made me rate the book 5 stars was the presentation of the characters.I thought the Giver would be someone who is the main character...but maybe he still is.
Jonas, as a special and precocious boy, is the classic hero in this book.I think many people have read The Giver.
The story will remain actual at any time of the future.
And in the end, we all take something small, and personal, from the book.
How have I missed out on this book for so many years? The premise of living a life without agency is something to think about. I can't tell you how often I have wished (prayed) for a world filled with only peace and happiness, where no one feels pain, hunger or sadness. This book made me seriously rethink that wish and realize - once and for all - that without feeling the depths of sadness, we can never know happiness. What an amazing story!
At one point I wrote a review for this book.
I believe the fact that I was a new father at the time of reading made the subject matter difficult - I swear you will hug your kids right after finishing this.
Twice while reading I threw this book across the room - that is not an exaggeration.
If my kids read this when they are teenagers, it is one I will definitely have to talk to them about before and after.I did finish the series, and overall it is very enjoyable - and the other books are not quite as shocking as this one!
I still think it's a good book, with an interesting concept and sophisticated writing...
but I was never 100% sold.For one thing, the protagonist and narrator has just turned twelve years old.
While I'm glad that authors are writing thought-provoking books for younger children, there is a lack of depth in the narrative which was necessary in order for it to be a realistic portrait of a child's mind.
The strength of the novel is not in the plot, writing or characters...
"I figured it out myself!" she said, and he nodded approvingly."We spent several lessons discussing release in class", he added, and started talking about the ethical dilemma of the book: how much did the characters know of the sinister undercurrents of the community?
It is horrible if you are alone!" My daughter is adamant.I listened to my children, communicating their thoughts, reflecting on a society so scared of passionate emotions and painful memories that they have abolished them, and I felt grateful that we aren't there just yet.

Memories need to be shared.”This book is a fuss.Yes I like the concept and yes what Jonas is going to find out about the world he lives in is very shocking.But why, with all the stuff going on, isn't it thrilling in any kind of way?
It's your typical, cliché dystopian book, minus everything that makes it interesting in the first place.This was one of the most boring and overrated reads of my life.I'm afraid to say it, but it's one of those books where the film is so much better.
And the film wasn't even that good.Find more of my books on Instagram
The novel follows a 12-year-old boy named Jonas.
The society has taken away pain and strife by converting to "Sameness", a plan that has also eradicated emotional depth from their lives.
Jonas is selected to inherit the position of Receiver of Memory, the person who stores all the past memories of the time before Sameness, as there may be times where one must draw upon the wisdom gained from history to aid the community's decision making.
اما سپس نارساییها یکان یکان آشکار میشوند.
Every aspect of life is controlled and decided by elders of the community, everyone is content simply because they don't know any different, but Jonas (the hero) is different, he sees things no one else can see.
The Giver alone holds the memories of the true pain and pleasure of life.
There is no turning back." Jonas is chosen to be the next "Receiver", The giver is the only man in the community who holds memories like color, sun, pain, war, courage, happiness, Love, emotions because the people can’t handle them and in case they needed guidance, Jonas slowly receives memories from the giver, Through his training, he discovers secrets of the time before theirs, and discovers that the Community is not as perfect as it seems.
It seemed like some kind of freaky propaganda for a fundamentalist society where everyone obeys without question and acts all fake nicey-nice and pretends everything is fine when it's not.
I kept reading just to find out why the book is so popular.
It's a young adult book, for crying out loud!
These people who pick it apart and assign it all kinds of evil intent and religious meaning really should not read fiction---especially not teen fiction.
Yeah, I could have picked it apart too, but my junior high self would not have done so, and I tried to read it in that spirit.
Plato sans PhilosophyI liked the set-up and the basic concept, but just basing it on Plato's Republic does not make something deeply philosophical.
Initially it was fun to trace various elements to Plato and see what Lowry has done with them in her 'community,' but soon it became clear that the book is based on a very dumbed-down version of the Theory of Forms and by applying it to memory (thus making memory inhabit/come form the mysterious ill-defined place the Forms were supposed to).
Lowry's dystopia is possible only in a community run by robots, and that is a very poor argument for a cause that deserves much better arguments.Also the book was boring and long-winded, to be really honest...
Imagine my surprise when I started reading this book and realized it had a science fiction vibe to it. Since I'm not a big fan of science fiction, I didn't hold out much hope that I would enjoy this book but enjoy it, I did! The ending was a little disappointing but I guess that's because this is the first book in the series, something I didn't know. I might read the others in the series somewhere down the road just to see how the author ends the story.
“The worst part of holding the memories is not the pain. It's the loneliness of it. Memories need to be shared.”  If I read The Giver before The Hunger Games or Divergent, this book would be the best of this genre. I decided to read the book after watching the movie, which is not much clarified . But I liked how ingenious the movie was, it dragged me too very simple things, such as opportunities, lives and rules of the society. I felt the power from its narration alone, it hit me straightly and
“The worst part of holding the memories is not the pain.
If I read The Giver before The Hunger Games or Divergent, this book would be the best of this genre.
I decided to read the book after watching the movie, which is not much clarified .
I felt the power from its narration alone, it hit me straightly and made me regret that I hadn't read this book sooner.
It's important to consider what you want to you thoroughly and its effect to other people.The narration of this book was quite languid.
i'm not sure if this counts as dystopian, because it reads more like a teen cult novel.
we never really find out what is happening in The World Outside - this could all take place in some small gated community like that one in disney which is totally creepy in its forced perfection.
even if you are simply setting up a small allegory for a teen audience, it can still make sense.
