https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6267237-the-van-alen-legacy
This series is basically a vampire soap opera, but man, what a well done soap opera it is.It has been over a year since Rio and Schuyler and Oliver have been on the run nearly as long.
She can't account for over a year of her life, and there is a Visitor living inside her, taking over whenever he pleases.
Is it the year of adventure and near death experiences that has caused Mimi to reevaluate her life, or has she only just found someone that allows her to be as she truly is?
I want to know what's gonna happen between Schuyler and Jack!!!!!!
WARNING: I AM VERY OPINIONATED, READ AT OUR OWN RISK!
This was, in my opinion, better than the first 3 books, but probably not something I would mark as 3 whole stars.
Now, having said that, I can't lie, I have enjoyed reading this series.
Why would I rate something as a 2 if I enjoyed reading it?
Well, because its not great writing and the story isn't wonderful, and I don't like some of the events...but, she has hooked me with the mystery.
Reading these books did wake me up though.
She was just annoying before, this book made me like her.
DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVE NOT FINISHED THE BOOK!!!!!!11I was torn between rating The Van Alen Legacy by Melissa de la Cruz one and five stars.
Certain scenes (anything with Ollie/Schuyler romance for example) were incredibly cringe-worthy whilst others, such as the self-sacrificing Kinglsey, deserved a standing ovation.
Whilst I enjoyed the dimming down of Mimi's vapidness in reference to her treatment of the children in Rio, I was once again reminded why I disliked her after the near-bonding.
I'm sensing a possible Twilight crossover here.Also, wtf Allegra.
Final rating: three stars.
Every time I finish a book in the Blue Bloods series, I can't decide if I like it or not.
(Odd, I know, but my feelings about this series are so ambivalent, that I can't even decide to buy a single book without more input .
Oliver gives Schuyler to Jack and tells her: "I know you would never leave me.
When he "gives" her to Jack, Oliver is acknowledging Schuyler's feelings.
Having been given to Jack, she feels like Oliver has given her a gift .
First of all, I was sure I'd read somewhere that this was the last Blue Bloods book, but this barely wrapped anything up, so I guess I'm in for at least one more volume.This book just felt scattered all over the place.
I like Schuyler okay, and Oliver, and Bliss, and even Mimi grew on me in this volume, but overall this type of time-encompassing, complex story was done much better in the City of Bones series by Cassandra Clare.
I understood the complexities better, and the story itself was more memorable.Like I said, I'm sure I'll read other Blue Bloods volumes if/when they arrive, but I'm not that thrilled about it.
THE VAN ALEN LEGACY just might be my favorite of the series!Since there is no synopsis up on the web, I'll just explain a couple of things.
And when Bliss' father steps forward, everyone is happy with the decision, but when a note from an anonymous sender pops up, regretful thinking prevents him from landing the position.I like to think of THE VAN ALEN LEGACY as the turning point in the series, even though the next book in the series hasn't been released yet.
I'm anxious to see what will happen next.THE VAN ALEN LEGACY is full of twists and turns, unexpected romances, and unbelievable details.
I got super lucky and was able to read the latest Blue Bloods book--out on Oct 6th--and okay, The Van Alen Legacy?
So good I actually COULDN'T stop reading it.
Okay, one more chapter.
Okay, just this little bit more...
The Van Alen Legacy is a non-stop ride of twists and turns and OMG I didn't see that coming!
and OMG!
over other things I won't mention for fear of spoilers but let's just say that if you are a Blue Bloods fan (and who isn't???) you are going to love, love, LOVE this book.
The premise was extremely original considering all the other vampire works coming out - reincarnation through life cycles, vampire/angel crossovers, half bloods, conspiracies, murder, and prophecies - but sadly that was all put to the side in favor of teenage angst, designer purses, and underage drinking.
Frankly I just don't care - about the charcters, Schlyer's fate, her's and Jack's romance, Mimi's getting her 'Mean Girls' come-up-ings, the fall of the Silver Bloods - none of it.
Who knows though, the 5th books blurb does sound a bit interesting, but I honestly hope it is the last installment in this series.
This is where the series lost me. I loved the first one...but by number four I just can't stand switching through everyone's pov the way this series does. Plus, the story is random and doesn't make sense. .The plot holes are just something my logical brain can't ignore anymore. maybe I'll skim the rest just to see what's going on with jack.
This book was DEFINITELY worth the wait, and I'd venture to say it's probably the best in the series.
The Van Alen Legacy finally gives us the information we need and kickstarts what we've been waiting for over the past 3 books.
Everything is sort of turned on its head in the Van Alen Legacy - relationships are twisted and broken, angels are going against the Code, nobody's who you think they are, and the reign of the Silver Bloods has extended further than anybody could imagine.
Having said that, the delivery was kind of blah.I wish I could say I was sucked in to Skylar and Ollie's adventures or Kingsley and Mimi's quest or the love triangle (with an infinite number of sides) with all of the character.
But I wasn't.The most interesting part was the battle that Bliss is facing, but the way she discovered everything about herself - the constant reminders of who she is, the way she has to lecture her mind into what's true and her thoughts - are kind of boring and annoying flat.A note about the audiobook: The voices are all wrong!
Skylar sounds like a 10-year-old boy, and Mimi sounds like a woman in her 40s who has a deeper voice than Kingsley!
my bad.)Rating: 3.5 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  7Characters: 8World Building: 7Flow:  6Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 6Total: 7In DeptBest Part: More action scenes.Worst Part: Still lost on what's going on.
Thoughts Had: what is happening!?; Poor Bliss; I'm lost.ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: ehShort Review: Is it bad that i don't even remember the ending?
Speaking of Bliss, i wanted to cry for her, she gets so much shit thrown at her throughout this series, i really need her to have a halfway decent ending please!!!Review in GIF Form:
(Link: http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/art...)No actual review, I just pimp my fanart.
The Van Alen Legacy…is a mission set out by Lawrence Winslow Van Alen and Cordelia Van Alen after their arrival in the New World believing that the Croatans were never vanquished and eradicated even after their Prince (Lucifer) was known to be defeated after the Roman War in the guise of the evil emperor Caligula.…was passed to Schuyler Van Alen after the death of his grandfather in the hands of Dylan Ward.…is the main story of the fourth book, dealing with the pursuit of the Gate of Hell where Lucifer is sealed after his defeat during the Roman War.…is the reason why Jordan Llewellyn, famously known as the Watcher, Pistis Sophia was hired by the Van Alens.
It may sound weird, but I actually liked this book.*slow music, heads turning towards me...weird expressions...* YES!
Its among the top vampire books I am actually interested to read and know what gonna happen in the end.
I also liked the chapters alternate between Schuyler, Bliss and Mimi.
Are you reading the same book as I am reading?" o.O Because I will tell you what possibly could have been the reasons.(1) People got mixed up with the stories.
Actually my face was like this until the very end of the book.[image error]Explains it all.
It has been over a year since Rio and Schuyler and Oliver have been on the run nearly as long.
She can't account for over a year of her life, and there is a Visitor living inside her, taking over whenever he pleases.
As Bliss fights to regain control of her mind, body and future, she uncovers the truth of who she is and in the process uncovers a scheme that could undo everyone and everything she has left but how do you fight something that lives in you?
Is it the year of adventure and near death experiences that has caused Mimi to reevaluated her life, or has she only just found someone that allows her to be as she truly is?
- Mimi's change of attitude at the beginning and middle of the book.
Pretty much her sections of the book.
What I did not like:- Bliss's sections.
- Mimi's personality at the end of the book.
. - Every time Mimi chose Jack over Kingsley.
- Mimi and Kingsley's scene in the glom where they separate forever.
- Even though I did not like Bliss's sections that much, I still felt bad for her especially when she saw Dylan.
- Oliver having to give Schuyler up because he felt like he couldn't protect her.
Still, I'll read the next book anyway.
So, I'd firstly like to address the fact that this is not the last book of the series.
I did feel like a lot of what happened, happened too conveniently, too much like wish fulfillment for all of the characters, tied up way too nicely.
I do suppose that the fact that I feel so strongly about the characters means that they are developed quite well.
:P] The one exception to the idea of well developed characters is seen in Mimi Force.
In which case, I'm hoping really hard that the plot moves along faster, or I might give up on these books just yet.Rating: 4/5
Their last hope is to ask the European Conclave for refuge and aid as she tries to fight the demon that killed her grandfather and is looking to maybe get her next.Meanwhile, her best friend, Bliss Llewellyn, in is the Hamptons, where her body has been taken over by an unknown spirit she calls "The Visitor."Mimi Force is flying around the world, looking for Bliss's sister, Jordan, who is actually The Watcher, an age-old Blue Blood who keeps a lookout for the fallen angel, Lucifer.Old love brings Schuyler back to New York along with Mimi as Bliss fights to overcome her mysterious Visitor.
This book was amazing for a YA book, I would even say that I enjoyed it a bit more than the Morganville vampires series and as much as the vampire academy series.I loved everything about this series.
The story about how vampires exist is so well created in this series that I never got bored or tired about hearing it in every book, all details and information that was said about it just got me more and more trapped in this amazing story.I think that how thinks worked out was the right way and I'll dye waiting till next book comes out.
You know, if you are going to stretch out a story arc to what the author is claiming will be ten (ten!!!!) books, you have to have enough story to tell. This book did very little to advance the overall plot and just did not keep me engaged in this series, it just felt like a whole lot of nothing happened. Characterizations are flat and lack nuance. If it is not literary, then there has to be a compelling story, this one fails on both counts. I think this is another series I am done with.
i cant wait to read this!!!
This is one of the best series I've ever read! This series is so so so so so so much better then Twilight not that i have any thing against twilight, but its the truth!!!
It's been forever since I read the last one. I remember thinking that the series was mediocre. Something must have changed from book 3 to 4. I thought this book was awesome.
I wouldn't want to spoil any of the book series for you.This book picks up with Oliver and Sky on the run because after she made her return to NYC she was accused of her grandfathers death, so now she must seek audience with a woman her grandparents knew in hopes she would keep her safe.
Confusion...What I didn't like...Bliss wrote a small note warning people about her father because he wants to become to leader.
It's obvious there is attraction between her and Kingsley and its more then obvious that Jack wants nothing to do with their bonding.
(I excuse such a blatant 360° because this book takes place nearly a year & a half after Revelations - giving Mimi time to actually grow a heart - even if we don't witness it first hand.) I guess the most obvious cause of change is that Mimi discovers love - not the weird & creepy incestuous bond she shares with her brother but something different & real with Kingsley.
By the end of this book I was surprised to find that I actually liked Mimi's character & I was now rooting for the bitch to get her HEA - (view spoiler)[The scene of Mimi and Kingsley in the glom where they separate forever made me tear up, no lie!
I really can't get behind the Jack and Schuyler pairing because I just don't like him.
Simply put, Jack has had an eternal obsession with a woman that does not love him back, and if Schuyler wasn't Allegra's daughter, he wouldn't give her a second glass.
Jack's not so bad for this whole Schuyler thing.
Look at Mimi and Kingsley!" I also don't buy Allegra as the good mother.
I also had to take away for what felt like a lack of research.
Wikipedia is not a very reliable source.On the whole though, I liked it.
The Conclave thinks Schuyler has killed her grandfather.
She loves Oliver now, no feelings for Jack.
Jack asks her to go back to New York where she will be better off instead of endangering herself.
But going back home would mean Jack would be closer now than ever and she loves Oliver...she could not break his heart.Mimi: Mimi thought that since Schuyler was out of the way that her and Jack would finally be able to love one another.
He doesn't even care for Mimi, not like he cared for Schuyler.
When Lucifer asks Bliss to kill Schuyler she has no choice.
This book took me a while to read.
I would have to grudgingly set aside time to read it, just because I wanted to finish it and move on.
So, if you want this to be your first Blue Bloods book, good luck.
Even if you have read every previous book in the series (like me), you might want to re-read them prior to reading this one.
The only character I remotely like is Mimi, and she managed to progress through out the book.I don't know.
De la Cruz should stick to the supernatural, as that is pretty strong.
