https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10429045-shatter-me
This is not a dystopia, it is a romance. This is not a novel, it is a collection of similes and metaphors, most of which do not make sense. I originally gave Shatter Me two stars because that's my sort of kneejerk reaction to books I don't like, but after thinking it over for a while, I can't recall anything positive about it that would justify a rating of more than one star.You're probably assuming - correctly - that I went into this book with low expectations. This is completely true. Any so-
I originally gave Shatter Me two stars because that's my sort of kneejerk reaction to books I don't like, but after thinking it over for a while, I can't recall anything positive about it that would justify a rating of more than one star.You're probably assuming - correctly - that I went into this book with low expectations.
For example, some reviewers thought that Lips Touch: Three Times was just a mess of bloated purple prose, whereas I thought it was one of the most beautiful books I read last year.
I actually thought it sounded interesting, unusual, especially because the whole thing is meant to be written in a notebook and I cross stuff out in mine all the time.
Close." Really just shit writing in general writing:"I am an old creaky staircase when I wake up.""Warner thinks Adam is a cardboard cutout of vanilla regurgitations." Do I need to explain how shitty this writing is?The characters:Juliette does nothing but sulk around, wait for death, whine, and has very creepy thoughts of Adam.
Because I need this.Oh, and if you decide to cast Alex Pettyfer as Warner I would be cool with that.Original fan-girl praise (because I am incapable of actually writing a true unbiased, unaffected review for this series):Okay, I have not properly reviewed this series since I read it a year ago (and I don't think I ever can because it would be ridiculously long and the book is so quotable that I would literally be citing the entire thing) but Shatter Me is one of my favorite series of ALL TIME.
Don't get me wrong, this book still means so much to me because of juliette, but there’s no possible way for me to read this book with the mindset “omg i love warner!!” because he’s literally the villain and he does and says so many problematic, manipulative things.
Sure, Warner sucks and I unironically wrote "ew" by half the things he says to her in this book, but watching Juliette's transformation and relating to her insecurities and thought process, as well as remembering how much I adored this book as a young teen, it's always going to be a priceless experience to me.July 2016I think this is my fourth or fifth time rereading it?
(Not 3, Miss Mafi)Now, normally, I would have tossed this book out the window like an overwrought Silver Linings Playbook Bradley Cooper, being that I AM the queen of the heartless page 15 DNF; however, I find that I have a harder time DNFing something when I am 1) Reading a physical copy as opposed to a digital copy, and 2) When I already OWN books two and three and am hoping to FUCK I didn't waste my money.
HOWEVER.When I am holding a professionally published, FINISHED copy of a mass produced book and it contains strikeouts, sentences starting in lowercase letters, and numbers one through ten incorrectly placed in number form, e.g., "Juliette has 2 hands and 0 1 brain," my inner grammar maven's granny panties get twisted so far up her ass, it's impossible to focus.
I’d like to cry into his eyes”I’ve never been a purple prose type of girl.
If the author is able to actually tell a story without distracting the reader with the prose, I’m all for it.
“Shatter Me” was like my first attempt at cooking a turkey  over-done.
Overall-I won’t read the next book.I might read the next book if I get a free copy.I’m curious to see where the author can go since it is clear that she can write.
Shatter Me, otherwise known as: When Creative Writing Class Goes Wrong.I am all for experimental writing, for stretching your abilities and trying to find fresh ways to express ideas. Occasionally you end up with genius, but most of the time you result in pretentious, awkward prose that stick in the proverbial craw of readers. This book is that writing. There are plenty of examples that I can give as evidence – but I shall stick with two relatively short ones:“His eyes scan the silhouette of my
I would explain what was wrong with the rest of the para­graph too but I want to keep this review to a 10,000 word the­sis at max.“I always won­der about raindrops.I won­der about how they’re always falling down, trip­ping over their own feet, break­ing their legs and for­get­ting their para­chutes as they tum­ble right out of the sky toward an uncer­tain end.”…right.I get, artis­ti­cally, that Mafi wanted to expose her read­ers to the mind of a girl whose san­ity is frag­ile and ques­tion­able, and that she’s try­ing to show this through the prose.
It’s like someone is emptying their pockets over the earth and doesn’t seem to care where the contents fall, doesn’t seem to care that the raindrops burst when they hit the ground, that they shatter when they fall to the floor, that people curse the days the drops dare to tap on their doors.Let me translate what Mafi was trying to say; "It was raining."This is one of, if not THE major problem of Shatter Me; she tries too hard to be clever and poetic and the story gets muddied along the way.I apologize for not going more in depth with this review, but I read this book over three months ago now and all I remember is that I hated it and it was incredibly poorly written.
“I always wonder about raindrops.I wonder about how they're always falling down, tripping over their own feet, breaking their legs and forgetting their parachutes as they tumble right out of the sky toward an uncertain end. It's like someone is emptying their pockets over the earth and doesn't seem to care where the contents fall, doesn't seem to care that the raindrops burst when they hit the ground, that they shatter when they fall to the floor, that people curse the days the drops dare to ta


Exactly how I would picture a movie poster for this book._________________I read this book in one sitting.For five hours, I read this.
That's how much this book pulled me.I know that there are many people who didn't like this book, some even hate it, but...
It's definitely one of those books that pulled me in and refused to let go.
I don't know, something about this book just really really wowed me, and it was fucking awesome in my eyes.Also, the author herself is awesome as well.
:DOverall, in spite of all the hate this book is getting, I absolutely loved it, and can't wait for the sequel.
“Hope is hugging me, holding me in its arms, wiping away my tears and telling me that today and tomorrow and two days from now I will be just fine and I'm so delirious I actually dare to believe it.”I think it was something new and extraordinary and I loved the way Juliette described her world.
I liked him from the beginning and I’m really curious to find out how things are going to proceed in the next books.
>_< Oh, well I think I’m supposed to say something about his character as well so here I go: He’s ruthless when he is with his soldiers but he is gentle whenever he is with Juliette.
(2.5?) The lack of world building is one of my main issues with this book (even though it seems like things will be explained in book 2...
a full book with little world building is boring!).I didn't love the writing and the characters felt very one dimensional.Kinda felt like another YA dystopian world with a love triangle and an incredibly pretty main character - even after spending over 6 months isolated, underfed...
and the fact that she hasn't seen herself in the mirror in 3 years...
Her beauty is mentioned in pretty awkward moments.If it wasn't for the fact that people say the series becomes way better after book 1 I would stop but I'll give the second book a try!
Read at your own risk :) This book captured me from the start!
She killed a little boy just by touching him.
I mean who wouldn't be a little nutzy cuckoo locked up alone for that long and knowing you couldn't touch anyone.
Lovely, yummy Adam :) Come to find out she has known him all of her life, from childhood.
She is in love with Adam and he with her.
Some other soldier ends up coming to the house all shot and what not and telling them he knows of a safe place for them to go.
[image error]How awesome was this book? Well,I am going to tell you. Pretty darn awesome! I am not very good at convincing people to read the books I loved so I am going to write this review without any pressure.  Here are some arguments:  1. if you are (like myself) a fan of X-Men,you will love it,or else...2. If you are (like myself) a fan of strong and smart leading character like Juliet,you will love it. 3. If you are (like myself) a fan of totally shagable and caring guy like Adam,you will
I am not very good at convincing people to read the books I loved so I am going to write this review without any pressure.
3. If you are (like myself) a fan of totally shagable and caring guy like Adam,you will love it.
4. If you are (like myself) a fan of crazy and demented bad guy who actually happens to be smoking hot(and in love with our girl Juliet),you will love it.
5. If you are (like myself) a fan of almost kissing or almost doing it scenes,then you will love it.
If that wasn't enough for you,than you have no soul suck.I love the guys in this book.
He is hilarious!).Now, Warner better go through some incredible and logical character development, because he's a fuckin sadist in this book and as a villain, I love him.
I really can't, so I'm intrigued, but also worried BECAUSE WHAT IF I FALL FOR A SADIST WHAT DOES THAT SAY ABOUT ME I AM WORRIED AND RESISTING RIGHT NOW!There was a moment where Warner and Juliette kissed in the book and I felt sick to my stomach, because my girl apparently felt some fuckin chemistry between them, which pissed me off.
People have loved Mafi's writing style, but I don't see it.
MKAY. First of all. I actually liked this but I must rant.. I must... then I promise to go to book 2 immediately.WHY. WHYWHYWHYWHY. I swear, if the writing hadn’t been so awkwardly aghhh… this book would have been a 4 star book. No, it was not just the strikeouts and crazy reputations. It wasn’t even the unfinished sentences.Please please please explain to me how you come up with sentences like this…  “He’s so wrong he’s so wrong he’s more wrong than an upside-down rainbow”  or   “He smiles with
I’m kind of ashamed to admit that I was totally into the story.
It wasn’t the most original story ever and it certainly had its very…odd… parts… but I’m totally curious about book two and I’ll definitely be continuing.
thanks for being there for me.) As I continued powering through...I found that I never got less annoyed with the writing SO I just started skipping the unnecessary sentences… thus the book was a little more enjoyable.
I don’t know if its because of all the crazy fandoms over this guy but I’m interested.
Whatever, I know what happens to them in book 2.
This is gooooooooood.  I'm not giving it 5 stars because, even if I admire the shit out of the author's style and talent, the writing is a bit too pretentious at times (hyperbole thy name is Tahereh Mafi), and I really don't care much about the whole Adam/Juliette thing, which unfortunately, occupies a huge part of the story. If you know me, you know I am a pro at ignoring ships that the authors clearly want you to root for. I don't trust Adam and his and Juliette's feelings for each other are s
I'm not giving it 5 stars because, even if I admire the shit out of the author's style and talent, the writing is a bit too pretentious at times (hyperbole thy name is Tahereh Mafi), and I really don't care much about the whole Adam/Juliette thing, which unfortunately, occupies a huge part of the story.
Also, Adam is super boring, and this seems like one of those romances you often encounter in first books and which only purpose is to prepare you for the abominable love triangle that's inevitably going to be rubbed in your face, later.As if the presence of a love triangle wasn't a problem of its own already...
Then it escalated to the point of “oh my god can I die now”.And yeah sure whatever, it’s showing that Juliette is mentally unstable and crap, but I’m pretty sure there was at least one stupid metaphor on each page and like boi I got the message on page 1 when we were introduced to Juliette yOU CAN STOP NOW.At least the writing style was easy to read, which helped me get to the end faster.
Re-Read (11/02/2018)I enjoyed it as much as I thought I would. I missed the characters a lot so I spent a great time accompanying them in this adventure, I know that it is not the best book in the world and I know that alot of people can't stand it, but personally, even though I'm aware of certain problems in it, I can't stop loving it. Shatter Me is one of those books that have made me love reading even more and will always be in my heart. I can't wait to continue with my re-reading in prepara
I missed the characters a lot so I spent a great time accompanying them in this adventure, I know that it is not the best book in the world and I know that alot of people can't stand it, but personally, even though I'm aware of certain problems in it, I can't stop loving it.
The over use of metaphors and strikeout tools caused a constant distraction, and the book was just not interesting enough for me to want to struggle through something that annoyed me so much.
The book (well what I got to, anyway) read like a super annoying IM by a 12 year old girl that just learned what a metaphor is.
Instead she chose to beat the metaphors, strikeouts, and repetitions into your head so many times you just end up  really, really, really, really  wanting to  kill yourself stop reading.This book was one of the biggest disappointments of 2011 for me, and I still cannot understand why anyone would enjoy this book, let alone say this author has talent.
This book is pretty darn bad. This book is pretty darn bad.Oh, darn, did I miss the point of the strikethroughs?
Given how so many writers focus on the "big ideas" and sacrifice deep characterization because of it, I was very happy with the way this first novel developed, driven by Juliette and her ramblings thoughts.Another hurdle of this novel is the prose, something that I feel will probably alienate many readers since...it's not exactly typical to read novels with lines like I'm catapulted across the room by my own fear or My mouth freezes in place.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestIt's not easy being Queen of Literary Trash. Between YA and bodice-rippers, I read more "bad" books than most elitist snobs will see in their entire lifetime. But then, I consider myself a connoisseur of the so-called trashy arts. There are two kinds of "bad" books. There are the books that tell good stories and while they aren't highbrow literature, they are still fun to read and if you can let go of your snobbery long enough to enjoy them
Between YA and bodice-rippers, I read more "bad" books than most elitist snobs will see in their entire lifetime.
Which, if you ask me, is 1 bad idea because not only does it look unprofessional as 0 other writers do this, but 2, comes across as overly gimmicky and makes you feel like you're reading cast-offs from a teenager's poetry journal as she tries - and fails - to channel Ellen Hopkins and/or Rupi Kaur.If you like this book, good for you, I guess.
I KNEW I would probably love this series if I gave it another chance at the right time since so many of my friends with similar taste adore it!!
I could not put this down and am thrilled I kept my books to try again.ORIGINAL 2-STAR REVIEW:Wtf did I just read.
This book is not for me.I called it a DNF last year but decided to try again after hearing only rave reviews from people with similar taste.
Dystopian books are really hit-or-miss with me and I'm just not feeling this world.I mostly read this to see the Warner guy everyone keeps talking about...
Let me know what you think :/My Thoughts - Juliette hasn't touched or talked to a single soul in 263 days.
She comes across as very innocent, vulnerable and naive, but can't seem to stop thinking about how she'd like to have her way with Adam - all the time if I might add."You're going to get better," I promise him.
Truthfully, when you have Adam and Juliette being so dramatic all the time and constantly declaring their love for one another (which I still don't buy) it's nice to have someone like Kenji around to lighten the mood.
THIRD ATTEMPT AT READINGI actually got through it. Full review to come. RE-READINGSECOND REVIEWI skimmed read this so bloody hard but here are some notes I took before my brain shit itself and couldn't handle the idiocy. The writing is beautiful, definitely but I hate both the plot and the characters. So, without further ado, here are my notes:-  “My parents emptied their pockets of me and left me to evaporate on a concrete slab.” - I hate Adam- I hate Juliette - "You could love me, you know.” H
- i really hope his character changes because if not no thank you- such a classic Edward Cullen and Jacob Black vibe between Adam and Warner too - Still hate Juliette - ok but why is it that the two love interests have the ability to touch her?
I've seen heaps of reviews recently, praising this book and it's understandable why - but I was left more confused than not.
The writing felt jerky, Juliette's inner monologue was strange, the romance came out of nowhere, and the world building took me almost 75% of the book to work out.
“Raindrops are my only reminder that clouds have a heartbeat. That I have one, too.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐Juliette was in a prison cell for nearly one year trying to survive her life in a dark, lonely room. There was no one to talk to, nothing to read, to do. She only had a small notebook where she wrote down her feelings, her thoughts. She poured her heart out into this pages. The guilt, the loneliness of never touching anyone. But then she got a new cell mate. A boy with blue eyes, that she remembered
Being trapped in a prison cell for nearly a year and never seeing kindness or love in the eyes of others, I’m not surprised that Juliette tries to seek out good and bad people she meets.
You always seemed like a protective, romantic guy, but after reading this whole trilogy a few times I see you clearly.
(But definitely continue the series, there’s something better coming our way) Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️The first time I read this book, the thing I liked the most about it was the writing.
Mafi creates an entire world with action, suspense, crazy hot boys and all that shit.Now, a lot of people said that they liked Warner, but for me, my childish brain fell in love with the first boy my eyes set on.
Yup, it was Adam.For some reason, this dude happened to capture my attention and made me absolutely despise Warner.
Now you see why I finished this in two days??And not only that, the action and just plain awesomeness of this book made it a terrific read.
Time for a Reread of Shatter Me aka 300+ pages of Hyperbole aka Juliette Whines for 3 weeks and I Endure It aka I'm Really Only Here for WarnerThis reread has been very helpful in informing me that yes, I do still hate Juliette with the fiery passion of a hundred nuclear detonations.She speaks in riddles, to the point where any self-respecting reader has to rest their eyes & brain every 3 pages to recover.
