https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9413044-everneath
The boy she was dating dumps her so instead of your normal level of teenage angst she decides to let a fucking stranger drag her into the underworld so he can drain her of her life essence because she doesn’t want to feel things anymore.A hundred years later (six months our time) and they wake up.
AND IT’S A BOY???So when the stranger that just attempted to rape her soul, turn her into a fucking mindless zombie, and relegate her to eternal darkness all so that he can continue to live his charmed immortal life, tells her that since she’s speshul she doesn’t have to go linger in what’s basically hell but can instead become what he is, she opts out and says she’s returning home.
Everneath tells the story of Nikki Beckett, who having since vanished 6 months ago to the Everneath, returns to her family and friends seeking a way to permanently say goodbye before she returns to the Underworld for good.
With a period of only six months, Nikki struggles to fight her addiction to Cole, right her wrongs, and somehow find a loop hole that will keep her with her loved ones.There are a few aspects in Everneath that make it stand out above the usual follies in the paranormal romance genre.
They reason why Nikki left to go to the Everneath was a direct result of an event involving her boy friend, Jack (coupled with a few other things).
Yep. I totally just gave my own book five stars. :)
Whilst reading this I happened to glance over at my mirror and see the expression on my face - my mouth was open, my eyes were wide... needless to say, I looked like a complete moron. But that should give you some indication of how much this story surprised me. I confess that I didn't expect to like it that much and it's obviously time I stop making these predictions when I'm nearly always wrong. I should also stop trying to work out what certain things appeal to me in books, these theories als
I should also stop trying to work out what certain things appeal to me in books, these theories also fall flat on their faces.I'm not going to sell this book as something it isn't, from the beginning there is a very heavy romantic element and a lot of the story is built up around the idea that Nikki has returned (after a century in Everneath, six months to the human world) for the purpose of rekindling her romance with her past boyfriend, or at the very least seeing him for one last time before the Tunnels claim her forever.
He was almost succeeded but one small mistake of looking back took Eurydice back to underworld, this time forever.Now: Jack and Nikki were lost in love, impossible to separate until Cole took her to Everneath.
His love and memory helped Nikki to survive the feed in Everneath.
It was very hard to endure the pain of losing Nikki, but he never lost hope.In one word Jack is a crush worthy male protagonist.On the contrary Cole is like an eclipse with different shades of personality.
She has six months to live before being dragged back into hell but she wants to see her exboyfriend, Jack, one more time before she goes.If I were to find a movie to compare this book to, I suppose it would be a mix between The Labyrinth and Drugstore Cowboy (or The Man With A Golden Arm if you’re going to be persnickety).
Jack was her love before The Feeding and Ashton breaks up the novel with several flashbacks to give us insight into Beck’s fall from grace.
I'm always on the search for good Hades and Persephone retellings.
The marketing and design of the cover also scream Hades and Persephone.
This is not a Hades and Persephone retelling.
This is more of an Orpheus and Eurydice retelling, with a random "love triangle" thrown in.
I know Hades and Persephone is pretty marketable right now, but it's not as if Orpheus and Eurydice is unpopular.
I have continued with the series, because it's easy and I do plan on reading anything even vaguely "Hades and Persephone", but it's not something I'd recommend to most people.
I wish the whole book contained what its last 10% did. Review to come.
This is not a Persephone and Hades retelling per se, but a modernized, completely original story that is loosely based on the myths of Persephone and Eurydice.
My heart was breaking for her, while holding on to a tiny flicker of hope that things would turn around.You can't start describing Nikki without first understanding Cole.
Cole is manipulative and cunning, which is capitalized by the fact that he can control emotions.
Cole and Jack are complete opposites which makes a fantastic love triangle.
This fresh take on the Persephone myth mixes the old with the new for an altogether beautiful and dark tale.
Little things like Nikki sitting at her desk and then several pages later getting up off or bed or Jack stacking chairs but then he's turning them over on tables.
(hide spoiler)]Nikki said she came back mostly to make her goodbyes easier this time, but she didn't do anything toward that effect.
I think the passiveness of her character could have worked better if she were struggling against Cole's control and fighting to figure out the right goodbye, instead of just being there, doing nothing.I had some questions with the Everneath world that I wanted answers to (and maybe they're answered later in the series).
“I’m already dead. It’s your world that killed me.”  This was a YA paranormal romance, featuring some mythology.I felt really sorry for Nikki in this, she’d obviously been through a lot and just wanted to get her life back, even if it was only for a brief time.The storyline in this was about how Nikki had been in the Everneath, acting as a battery for a boy called Cole, and had finally gotten out only to find out that she only had 6 months before she would have to go back to a far worse place.
This was a YA paranormal romance, featuring some mythology.I felt really sorry for Nikki in this, she’d obviously been through a lot and just wanted to get her life back, even if it was only for a brief time.The storyline in this was about how Nikki had been in the Everneath, acting as a battery for a boy called Cole, and had finally gotten out only to find out that she only had 6 months before she would have to go back to a far worse place.
I really liked this story though, and I liked both of the love interests too, even if we weren’t quite meant to like Cole.
Only six months have actually passed in the real world and Nikki has exactly another six months to say good-bye to her family and friends, before disappearing forever in the Tunnels, a sort of hell for Forfeits.With very few exceptions in mind, I'm usually not very attracted to stories based on pre-packed mythology and its application to modern society...
(still no sex, though!) While this story could have easily been characterized by the well-known, trite series of clichés typical of standard paranormal YA nowadays (love triangle, love at first sight, bitchy competition and so on and so forth), it fortunately manages to avoid falling blatantly right into some of them.
DNF 31%. I can't take anymore. Girl somehow goes to the underworld and somehow comes BACK only to resume high school to be around the guy that broke up with her (her true love) just to be around him, but she has to make sure they don't become actual friends or rekindle their romance because she has to "keep him from getting close again." Huh?!?!The only semi-interesting character is Cole and I'm pretty sure he is supposed to be the bad guy part of the love triangle.Buddy read with the MacHalo group. 29% pre-review:
And will it even matter, given that she will return to the Everneath in six months' time?I'll admit that I'm not the greatest fan of paranormal YA these days, but Everneath was surprisingly refreshing in that it actually seemed to address some of the problems in other young adult narratives.
I was really moved by them as a couple and convinced by their feelings for one another, and I can't often say such a thing about a paranormal YA couple wholeheartedly as I can with Nikki and Jack.Also of note is the foundation for the Everliving's world, layered with Greek and Egyptian mythology.
I really really wanted to like Everneath but in the end I just couldn't bring myself to love this one.This book really makes you work at trying to figure out what the hell is going on.
I really loved the mythology that Ashton brought into this and her writing is very good, but I wish the flow of the story moved a little better.
It just felt to confusing which annoyed me throughout the story.I can't say that I liked these characters very much either.
Jack had his moments and was the reason I wanted to even finish the book.
Needs More Mythology   I figured that was going to be my review opener until I hit the last portion of the book. The connection between the realm of the gods and our world wasn't made clear upfront, but wouldn't you know...the author had to sneak some of it in on us at the last minute.  Buried alive...  Nikki (Becks) is back in town after a long period of time away. 100 years underground, to be exact. Yet, in everyone else's perspective, they think she's only been gone a matter of months. Whe
When heartache caused Nikki to bargain for time in the Everneath as a way to cope with the pain, she was forced to pay the price - one which might not come with an 'out clause'.
I feel somewhat guilty that the characters of Jack and Cole kept making me think of Dank and Leif from the Existence trilogy, because this was a huge hurdle for me to get over, considering how I wasn't a big fan of Existence.
The end of the book is where the story finally hit an AHAH!
When my entertainment comes with a dose of perceptiveness and good writing and life-positive messages, I am super-extra happy, but I have been known to love books like Spellbound simply for the entertainment quotient.
So Nikki Beckett finds out, to her detriment, that Hades (Everneath) is not really the world of the dead, but instead a place for immortals, called the Everliving, who sustain themselves by feeding off willing human sacrifices.
Since the book splits the narrative between the present time, and her life before the Feed, it's easy to see how much more mature the returned Nikki Beckett is.
Jack is another reason I went into Everneath with extremely high expectations, after seeing so many reviews praising him and comparing him to the likes of Tucker Avery - a character I'm pretty sure everybody loves, but throughout the entirety of Everneath, I never found myself feeling more than dismissive towards him.
In the end, I was left with just an overall feeling of meh, whether it be concerning the execution of the plot, the romance, the characters, or the writing.
This was a pretty original modern Hades/Persephone retelling!
I'm not even going to try to summarize the plot, though, because it took the entire book to figure out what exactly was happening.
It's a bit confusing at times with how it jumps between before & after, but the writing is solid so it's not frustrating or anything.
I don't know what will happen in the sequels (or if I'll read them), but I liked how the Persephone figure didn't fall for the Hades guy for a change.
I took a star off because I'm really not that into YA paranormal books anymore and this felt too close to that.
There might be times in your life when you feel that you’ve hit the very bottom and that you can’t take it anymore.Try to imagine for a moment that you have lost everything you care about. That someone would tell you that it’s in his power to take all your pain away.. What would you do? Would you take the chance?You might say “no”, you might say “maybe” or even you might agree..But what if it is not only the pain that it’s taken away from you, what if you’re fading away with every memory, with
She has given herself away (when a boy called Cole told her that he can erase all her suffering), now she has no feelings, her memory is back in pieces, and she has a few months to say goodbye to the people she cares about and then she will disappear from this world for ever.The only thing she recalls is the face of a boy, her first love, and one of her big disappointments – Jack.
Great concept, boring and flat execution.
It was haunting, and heart-breaking….and I loved it.Seventeen-year old Nikki Bennett, Becks, has been gone for six months in the Everneath, a place where Everlivings, immortal beings, feed off the emotions of humans to survive.
Nikki has come home to say a proper good-bye to her family and friends, most of all a proper good-bye to Jack, the love of her life.
It pained me to see Nikki realizing how close her best-friend, Jules and Jack became after she disappeared, and feeling the jealousy she felt because of it.
Jack: “More than friends?” Nikki: I didn’t say anything.
Instead of Nikki or someone else just telling a long story of the crucial events that took place before this book (which would be so boring), Ashton uses the past and present writing tool.
Nikki is a great main character.
Jack and Cole.
The only ones I like and appreciate are the strong love triangles where you have no idea who the main character will pick, and you love both of the guys.
This is one of those books."Team Jack!
Wait no, Team Cole!!!
Team Jack!!
I still can't believe that ending ;(Things that I didn't like:I highly recommend this book to YA readers!!
Let me explain:During her time "Before the Feed," she is apparently super-uber-duper in love with football player boyfriend, Jack (I know, he is just so unique *rolls fucking eyeballz*) and can't flippin' think straight and shit when they are together.
Not even 2 pages later, she's getting hot in the face, cause she catches a glimpse of Cole's fucking tongue post!!!!She also acts out like a complete child, when she gets upset and throws--I kid you not--her backpack at her dad's face.
Well, no need to read the book now, because that is pretty much all that happens (view spoiler)[ Except for the ending, Nikki manages to avoid getting sucked back into the Everneath.
The other love interest Cole seems to be like totally devoted to Nikki even though he isn't completely honest and does bad things.
There are a few secondary characters which could have made this novel more interesting had they been mentioned in more than passing; Nikki's dad, her brother, her bff Jules, that blonde cheerleader bitch *double yawn* We also do learn some rules and mythology regarding the Everneath but nothing especially captivating or worthy of keeping me on the edge of my seat.
Forced to finish this one The cover suggests a slightly more mature theme, even within the YA genre. It can happen. I just finished reading a book where it happened. But 99% of the book is spent with her outside of this “Everneath”, resulting in a fairly uninteresting read. I read it quickly so I didn’t waste too much time on it, but I really don’t like it when covers are so deceptive.Nikki is the central character of the story. 6 months ago she was taken to the Everneath by Cole, an immortal w
I just finished reading a book where it happened.
I read it quickly so I didn’t waste too much time on it, but I really don’t like it when covers are so deceptive.Nikki is the central character of the story.
6 months ago she was taken to the Everneath by Cole, an immortal who used her life force to sustain his own and his Queen’s.
And therein lies the story.I didn’t really like how 100 years in the Everneath is only 6 months in the real world.
There are two other potentially interesting worlds that we merely hear about: the Everneath and the Underworld, and I wanted Nikki to explore both.
Nikki feels just like that, and ends up turning to the wrong person Cole.
Next things she knows she’s been stuck into an underworld where immortals Feed on the emotions of those who have hit wrong bottom like Nikki.
Nikki though finds a way to get back to the surface and finally make her peace with her family and love ones before she’s suck back into the underworld.
And the author shows this with how Nikki is supported by her love ones and is able to overcome her “addiction” to Cole and dealing with the good and the bad.The ending was heartbreaking and leaving the reader wanting more, but still with a great amount of hope that things will get better.
Persephone and Hades is my favrouite myth and for someone that studies classics, this twist on the tale was beautifully written.I loved how Brodi Ashton wrote the flashback and then the flash forwards.CHARACTERS-Nikki is a very strong female protagonist, she knows what she wants and she goes out and gets it.You really see her descions show who she is as a person.Jack is my least favrouite character, I think in this book he dragged Nikki down.
First of all I really want the dress on the cover. It's amazing! The myth of Persephone is one of my favorites and this was such a creative take on the story. The beginning was so compelling I just wanted to keep on reading to figure out what was going on. Loved the anchor idea!
And then a lovely blonde in the corner of the room read her first pages, about a high school girl who's been missing for six months, and everyone assumes she's on drugs when she reappears, gaunt and haunted .
ACTUALLY GOOD!Fast forward a couple of years and I meet Brodi Ashton through Bree Despain, and at a restaurant one night we start talking about that writers' conference, and I say, "Geez, I wish I knew what happened to that chick with the story about the girl serving time in hell." And Brodi goes, "Are you making fun of me?" Me: "No!
