https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36344555-all-we-ever-wanted
*3.5 stars*With her ninth novel, Emily Giffin takes an ambitious step away from her traditional love story narratives and attempts to tackle relevant topics surrounding social media, privilege, racism and self-worth.
Things that feel all too timely with the dominance of social media and the #metoo movement.
Taking a stance (although, he wavers at the most unexpected times) and protecting his daughter’s self-worth means not allowing the incident to just fade into the ether.Lyla earns the spotlight here, being the naive teenage girl, too in love with her crush to do anything other than brush away his major error in judgement.
"You should always side with your kid. Always.""Without regard to his actions?" I asked. "No matter what?" Here's two things I know for certain: 1) I would never condone abusive discriminatory behaviour, and 2) I would do everything within my power to protect my sons. So what happens if those two things directly contradict one another?This book surprised me by how much it affected me. I actually felt deeply discomfited and sad while reading it. I've never read  Emily Giffin and, to be honest, I
Here's two things I know for certain: 1) I would never condone abusive discriminatory behaviour, and 2) I would do everything within my power to protect my sons.
I actually felt deeply discomfited and sad while reading it.
Nina becomes convinced Finch's father has fuelled this toxic behaviour and she starts to question her husband and their marriage, too.
The story often seems headed in certain directions but surprises us by not giving into the usual cliches.But it's more than just a compelling family drama.
It's obviously not an easy question to answer, and Nina's reaction to it felt honest and sad.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr... “All We Ever Wanted”  was my first read from Emily Giffin and I loved it!Life is good for the Browning family. Nina Browning’s husband Kirk sold his software company at the right time and they went from comfortable to very wealthy in a very short period of time. Nina doesn’t like to flaunt how wealthy they are, but her husband is a different story. Nina is trying to keep their eighteen-year-old son, Finch from becoming enti
Nina doesn’t like to flaunt how wealthy they are, but her husband is a different story.
She really can’t believe that he will be off to college in the fall.What Nina doesn’t know is that right at that moment their son is across town making the worst decision of his life.Tom Volpe is a single father who works multiple jobs in order to support his daughter, Lyla.
Sure enough, a few minutes later his phone rings…The story is told from the perspectives of Nina, Tom, and Lyla which really helped the story flow nicely.
This is a truly powerful, wonderful novel.
It’s been many years since I’ve read an Emily Giffin novel, but I enjoyed those books and was excited to read this one.
My previous experience with her work did not prepare me for the complex, layered, serious manner of this excellent book.
Also, it’s about the way teenagers don’t want to disappoint their parents, and parents want to do their best for their kids.There were pleasing twists in the story, and I cried my guts out at the end.
Although there have been stories about abuse (of power, physical and emotional…) published in the past, the way this life-altering scandal is dealt with is different.It’s told from three distinct points of view, all in the first person singular.
Only the father and daughter are related, the mother being the parent of the boy who caused the scandal, but they connect to one another in various ways.It’s filled with manipulatory behaviour – so much that it will mess with your head and what you believe is true – and characters behaving atrociously.
4 timely stars to All We Ever Wanted! ⭐⭐⭐⭐When Emily Giffin releases a new book, it’s a big deal, and I think All We Ever Wanted is her best book yet! That said, All We Ever Wanted gets off to a rocky start. The first chapter is narrated by Nina who escaped her middle class roots to live amongst Nashville’s wealthiest. I was worried over-the-top grandeur would take center stage in this book, but it did not. Nina’s son, Finch (no offense to any Finches of the world, but that name made me giggle a
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️When Emily Giffin releases a new book, it’s a big deal, and I think All We Ever Wanted is her best book yet!
The next chapter is narrated by Tom, a single dad working multiple jobs to raise his willful daughter, Lyla, who earns a scholarship to Windsor Academy, where she rubs elbows with the most privileged kids in town, including Finch, of course.
We also hear from Lyla as a narrator.
All We Ever Wanted is timely because we hear most every day a story where a teen, or even adult, has made a mistake on social media, one that could have a lasting impact on that person and their family, and even their community.
what do you do when your daughter has had her picture taken in a compromising position at a party and it is plastered all over social media?
Meet Tom single father of Lila the girl in the infamous picture and Nina the mother of Finch the photographer....
What If it were one of my boys that took this picture?
but how hard would it be to let your son ruin his life over one indiscretion?Ugh still have no idea what I would do, and fingers crossed I never need to figure it out!This book was told from the perspectives of Nina, Tom, and Lila and I thought this was super effective....
Nina was probably the most relatable character to me, because she was a mother...
By now, her pattern is set, but this time, the stakes are higher.--It could happen anywhere--All We Ever Wanted is a domestic drama about the upheaval that occurs when the 18-year-old son of a wealthy and prominent Nashville couple posts a questionable photo of an underage girl, launching reverberations that upend the family’s smug existence and that of friends and relations as well.
She seeks to explore the pitfalls of privilege, yet she absolves her heroines of mistakes and casts them as well-intended victims who are really good people, honest, if you just look behind the Chanel handbag and Mercedes SUV.--Meet the mom--When we meet her, the main character, Nina, has ridden high for two decades on the wealth and cache of her husband’s success.
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!3.5 Stars”When the sharpest words wanna cut me downI'm gonna send a flood, gonna drown them outI am brave, I am bruisedI am who I'm meant to be, this is meLook out 'cause here I comeAnd I'm marching on to the beat I drumI'm not scared to be seenI make no apologies, this is meOh-oh-oh, oh-oh-oh, oh-oh-oh, oh, ohThis is me” -- This is Me, Keala Settle, The Greatest Showman Ensemble, Songwriters: Justin Paul / Benj Pasek Nina Browning was raised in Bristol, a small city on the T
Nina’s husband, Kirk, came from old money, a ”fourth-generation silver-spoon Nashvillian” who grew up ”ensconced in a private-school, country-club world.” Snobbery was in his blood.Nina and Kirk’s son, Finch, had just received his acceptance letter for Princeton the day before, and they spent the evening at a charity fund-raising dinner, for suicide awareness and prevention.
Tom, Lyla’s father, is a carpenter raising his daughter alone, proud that Lyla was able to get a scholarship for the prestigious Windsor Academy, where Finch also attends.
As a parent of a 12 year old son that seems to be growing quicker than I'd like him to be I found this book to be quite terrifying.
The entire time I was reading this novel I couldn't help but think "What would I do?" My emotions really went through the ringer with this one.
Nina & Kirk have it all including an 18 year old son, Finch, who has recently been accepted to Princeton.
Their son is accused of taking a picture of a girl, exposed, while passed out at a party captioned with a racist comment.
Lyla is the girl in the picture.
All We Ever Wanted is a timely story about Lyla and Finch, two high schoolers attending an elite private prep school in Nashville, who both go to a party one night.
The story is told in alternating perspectives - from Nina, Finch’s mom, Tom, Lyla’s dad, and from Lyla herself.
This book focuses on choosing between right and wrong, as well as money vs.
Some people believe money can be thrown at a problem and that everyone has a price.
Some people believe justice is the only price.
And some people just want to be liked.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ / 5All We Ever Wanted by Emily Giffin completely blew me away, and it evoked many of the same feelings I had reading Beartown by Fredrik Backman. What would you do if your son is accused of sharing a picture with his buddies that contains a half naked girl with a racist "joke" as the caption? Well that is exactly what Nina has to find out when her son Finch is accused of doing just that. Told in alternating viewpoints, this book is a heavy hitter that touches on a lot of pertinent issues i
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ / 5All We Ever Wanted by Emily Giffin completely blew me away, and it evoked many of the same feelings I had reading Beartown by Fredrik Backman.
Told in alternating viewpoints, this book is a heavy hitter that touches on a lot of pertinent issues in today's society.
Final Thought: I have heard that All We Ever Wanted is nothing like Giffin's other books (which mainly seem to be romantic in nature), but it was such an amazing book that it makes me want to read her other novels right away.
4.5 Stars rounded up!I love Emily Giffin and I get so excited when I hear the annoucement that a new book of her's is coming out.
Lyla comes from a single father home, her mom is an alcoholic but her dad wanted better for her.
Her Dad is a carpenter for the town and does his best for him and his daughter.
Thus starts the conflict, the questions and we start to find out the moral of each of the characters.What happens when your husband and you disagree on a parenting decision?
I love how they all come from different places but try to work together to resolve conflict.
.....starting with inappropriate sexual behavior among teens.....leading to a community scandal.If it’s not clear by now - that social media has become a quick way to spread ugly information out to people whose business it’s ‘not’.....creating real damage - from misdemeanors to Felony crimes - to deeply hurting people - if one has ANY QUESTION of the damage ......spending time reading this book - looking at the nut & bolts from every angle will prove to be TRANSFORMATIVE......For those more clear about the contemporary problems teens and families face today in a “sharing-is-caring” modern world of transparency - Emily Giffin’s book will strengthen and re-enforce your own beliefs.....on what’s right - and what’s evil - on morality & ethics - on how cheating damages relationships - lies hurt -etc.
Tom Volpe is the single working class father of the teenager Lyla who was the subject of the photo.
Tom is furious that the incident happened but Lyla is only concerned with fitting into the rich crowd at her school and doesn’t want her father to make a scene and embarrass her further.
The book follows Nina, Tom and Lyla and changes the point of view between them as the incident unfolds to see how they all cope with what had happened.
This was an engaging and entertaining novel.
I saw it listed on the GOODREADS CHOICE AWARDS Best Fiction list and picked it up.
The novel takes place (mostly) in Nashville and it deals with relevant issues such as social media, privacy in the informational age, privilege, and prejudice.
I was drawn in from the start and I'm glad I picked it up.This is the second novel I read from this author, I didn't care for the one I read years ago but I loved this novel.
I'm glad my previous experience did not deter me from picking this up.I highly recommend it to readers of contemporary fiction.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Somehow I managed to avoid Emily Giffin’s books for nearly FIFTEEN years, but couldn’t resist any longer thanks to all the times this one kept popping up over on Bookstagram . . . .  My reaction now that I’ve jumped the shark off that bridge????  Caricatures rather than characters, stereotypes (rich = bad/poor= good – upperclass white teenage boys = sociopaths at best/Brock Turners at worst/middle-class teenage girls = naïve victims-in
Caricatures rather than characters, stereotypes (rich = bad/poor= good – upperclass white teenage boys = sociopaths at best/Brock Turners at worst/middle-class teenage girls = naïve victims-in-the-making) and a “ripped from the headlines” storyline (boy takes/shares selfie of passed out naked girl at a party) that comes off desperately as trying to be relevant but remains completely devoid of emotion throughout.
Simply put, this was the most basic white girl of chick lit and was absolutely .
I’ve had plenty of friends who read Giffin’s stuff in the past back when it was that whole wedding type of name series and loved her, but it’s pretty clear she is most definitely NOT for me and will be a one-and-done.
Children who are obedient and responsible bring to their parents unending pride and satisfaction.”The underlying message of that quote sums up the content of Emily Griffin’s book, “all we ever wanted.”Griffin’s book takes on themes of affluence, sexual assault, social media, harassment, racism and elitism in a story that will leave the reader asking, “what would I do in that situation?”One bad decision will ultimately change the lives of two families forever and lead to collateral damage to others.Griffin gives the reader a chance to see the point of view from all the main characters in real time giving us a chance to feel the highs and lows of every person involved.I find myself still thinking about this book a week later and discussing it with friends and family.
A definite must read and should be on everyones book club list.I received a copy of this book via Netgalley.
It did effect my review of this book.#netgalley #allweeverwanted #emilygriffin
The arguments, the searching for control....yes, the teenage years were often hell, but they were also exciting as you discovered yourself, your needs, and of course the people who you loved, your first crush, the dates, the hanging out, the proms, the joy of being alive where every emotion was tingling always and life stretched out in infinite minutes.Nina Browing has it all.
They attend a party, unsupervised by adults and drink and then a picture is taken of Lyla that will eventually open up all the prejudices, some of them racially motivated and a series of lies that lead Nina in search of who she is married to and what her son is becoming.
She takes us on a powerful journey through marriage, motherhood, friendship, teen life, racism, and the negative effect of social media.
This book definitely deals with some heavy topics that are going on in today's world right now.The story is told from three points of view: Nina, Tom, and Lyla (Tom's daughter).
First, we have Nina, she is living the dream.
Then, we have Tom, he's a lonely single father raising Lyla and working several jobs to pay the bills.
Then, one photo, that was shared on social media, changes their lives forever.
WOW!!!!!I could not put this book down.
A mistake is revealed that is life changing, for a young girl who comes from a blue collar family and a young man who is entitled and comes from an affluent family, both attending a prestigious, expensive school.The event is revealed early in the story but through multiple points of view, the true story is revealed by the disparity of classes and how wealth provides access that can alter an outcome where actions have consequences.
Intense, emotional and so climatic in the end.
The is my first book from this author and look forward to more.
Now, Nina, Finch, Lyla, and Tom must grapple with the aftermath of the photo and what exactly happened the night of the party.
By alternating the point of view between Nina, Tom, and Lyla, we get to the story told from a range of characters, including the victim herself.
In the end, I enjoyed this one because it wasn't totally predictable and because I really liked the characters of Lyla and Tom. I found it to be an easy and quick read.
While it's not exactly the same story, I would recommend the amazing Girl Made of Stars from Ashley Herring Blake if you're looking for a timely book on this topic.
This was an extremely troubling but compelling story told through the eyes of Nina, Tom and Lyla.
Nina is a bridge to both worlds as she comes from more humble beginnings and can empathize with Lyla’s circumstances.
Tom struggles with Lyla, who doesn’t think what happened was a big deal, to get her to understand how she’s been harmed and how her view will ultimately imperil her self value.
I loved how this story unfolded, made even more powerful by having Lyla’s point of view.
All of the characters were changed by what happened, Nina most profoundly as it forced her to take an unfiltered look at her life.
This book asked compelling, relevant questions from start to finish about privilege and whether the luxuries we allow ourselves to enjoy can become an infection that poison our children if we’re not careful. Essentially, there is a party, and a rich boy takes a semi-nude photo of a girl from the other side of town, then posts it to social media. How far would a parent go to protect their child is the question the book asks.Trigger Warnings: (view spoiler)[ sexual assault, attempted suicide (hide
This book asked compelling, relevant questions from start to finish about privilege and whether the luxuries we allow ourselves to enjoy can become an infection that poison our children if we’re not careful. Essentially, there is a party, and a rich boy takes a semi-nude photo of a girl from the other side of town, then posts it to social media. How far would a parent go to protect their child is the question the book asks.Trigger Warnings: (view spoiler)[ sexual assault, attempted suicide  (hide spoiler)]Please excuse typos/name misspellings. Entered on screen reader.
I usually don't like when books are written this way, one chapter for each character.
I really enjoyed it in this story and feel is was so well written.The three characters are Nina, Tom and Lyla.
Nina is a strong woman and by far my favorite character.
Tom, the single father, is also a great character who is looking out for his daughter.
Lyla is the teenage daughter who goes through so much, but is so strong and amazing.I wanted to scream at Lyla so much through this book.
I really enjoyed it and I told my daughter she should read it next.
All We Ever Wanted was a captivating and engaging read. At first glance it might seem the plot is simple, not much going on, but actually so much is happening in this novel. One reckless action of a teenage boy unravels a series of events that will dramatically affect lives of people around him.I am very happy to see this book nominated for Goodreads Best Fiction 2018.
What a book! Could not put it down. This book was a quick and easy read but dealt with thought provoking and timely topics. Loved the alternating points of view telling the story from the perspectives of parents and teenager. The end seemed a bit rushed and I wanted more that’s why I gave it 4 stars and not 5. This would make a good book to discuss with a friend or book club. Will Giffin write another dark story? We will have to wait an see.
between teenagers and serious issues that are presented in our society.Nina one of our main characters finds out that her son Finch took a sexual photo of a girl named Lyla while she was passed out with a racist remark and sent it to basically the entire school.
A battle between the underprivileged and privileged emerges between the two families in this horrible series of events.I feel like Emily Giffin did a wonderful job exploring challenging issues of social media, bullying, sexting, and pressure of alcohol that teens face today in society.
As you can see this dealt with serious issues in this story and I felt like the characters were base surface level.

There's always been something about Emily Giffin's characters or overall writing that turned me off.
I downloaded it, then erased the files a week later when I hadn't found any motivation to start it.
A week after that, the craziness of Thanksgiving had passed and I was ready to read something so I downloaded it again and went into it blind.
First and foremost, this book is about parenting.
But even beyond all of these very important issues, it's about the responsibility each parent has of instilling morals and values into our children through role-modeling and consequences.
