https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22680.American_Sphinx
I’m not going to try and grab the slave-owning Jefferson and pull him into the 21st century and take him to task on the biggest blight on America – but I absolutely can judge him by what he wrote about slaves, African-Americans in general and also by the measuring stick of other Virginia contemporaries.Jefferson hated slavery but not enough to ever really do anything much about it, other than write letters and thoughts that were all over the map and like many things Jeffersonian, conflicting.
Ellis, American SphinxEllis' biography of Thomas Jefferson's character is a more difficult task than one might imagine at first.
Jefferson while brilliant with words is also a founding father of smoke.
He had a great ability to mask his feelings and deceive himself.
Washington created the Great Man of America.
Hamilton created America's government.
Madison created our Constitution.
Jefferson created an idea and an ideal.
Ellis doesn't try to tackle the whole of Jefferson.
Ellis isn't trying to re-travel the well-traveled histories.
He wants to put the smoke into a bottle.
It is a good biography, just not a great one.
Ellis doesn't spend much time asking why Jefferson was the way he was (a pretty worthwhile question, I think), instead showing, in rather too much detail how he was: an aristocratic populist, a slaveholding champion of individual liberty.
That's a shame , since the beginning of his discussion hinges on correcting the popular image of Jefferson; I can't imagine that the layperson who ostensibly has this limited view of Jefferson would be interested enough to stick with this dense little book.This is a history of ideas, of beliefs and of ideals.
But too often, it neglects the historical, and in so doing obfuscates the ideas, beliefs and ideals it tries to explain.
A provocative survey of an enlightenment thinker and statesman who could never outdistance his contradictions. My friend Mark Prather selected this for samizdat and a number of us read such and with a formality of discussion. The passage of a couple decades would likely have adjusted those younger impressions.
This book is more a series of portraits than a biography.
This method works well for Ellis (see: Founding Brothers), probably because the broader view allows him to write more lyrically than a stick-to-the-facts biography would allow.
What emerges from Jefferson's portraits is a man with extraordinary powers of self-delusion.
Jefferson's hypocrisies are known to most people, but this book really drives them home.Ellis doesn't focus solely on Jefferson's flaws, though, Which is not to say that Jefferson was wholly Ultimately though, whatever his glaring personal flaws, his words and ideas retain a powerful ability to inspire people.
Without the Declaration there is probably no Bill of Rights, no French Declaration of the Rights of Man, and no United Nations Declaration of Human Rights.
"American Sphinx", Joseph J Ellis.
Ellis, ostensibly enjoys championing himself as a renegade historian, unafraid to attempt to topple one the most well respected and admired of America's founding fathers.
Recklessly wielding his anachronistic values upon Thomas Jefferson, "American Sphinx" escalates into a full contact assault on one the most important and revered figures in western culture.
Thomas Jefferson is no longer the successful plantation owner, but a hypocritical slave owner.
Ellis mostly appears foolish in his attempt to elicit controversy.
In leu of a three hundred page book, "American Sphinx" would have been more appropriately formated as a three minute segment on National Public Radio.
Each and every one of these had an agenda, and while we may want to believe in "compartmentalization" since it leaves intact the image of the honest Jefferson, there's another much more obvious explanation that Occam demands we accept: political expediency.Even if -- horror of horrors -- Jefferson turns out to have been a politician, he remains one of the most visionary and influential of our history, and if I took one major realization away from this book, it was this: that one of the central essences of our American flavor of democracy -- the conscious limiting of the rights and powers of the central government, and the constant clamoring for smaller and less at the federal level -- comes directly and almost singularly from Jefferson.
Second, the book's odd chronology -- it leaves large gaps in the Jefferson story, including for example, his entire tenure as Secretary of State under Washington, and his second term as president.
After my frustration with Meacham's Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power, I was hopeful Ellis would give me a better grasp on Jefferson's character.
200ish pages fewer than The Art of Power (text proper, not including the notes section of either) and I felt I got a lot more out of this.
The skipped sections I mention were rife with issues i.e. in the Jefferson/Hamilton embattlement as Secretaries to Washington from which TJ resigned, and his 2nd presidential term many have dubbed a "failure." A TJ hater could have pulled from those periods easily, but Ellis appeared to be looking for different aspects, and perhaps those illustrate character aspects already covered.
Thomas Jefferson has always been my favorite of the Founding Fathers.
I won't deny that part of it is because I do like a good scandal.
:) But the other part is because he's simply fascinating.
I've always loved thie combination of ego and indulgence, passion and beautiful reason that he exhibits.
I love his writings.
This book is by the same guy who did "Founding Brothers" (which is also fascinating and won a Pulitzer Prize), so the guy knows what he's talking about.
And since that is the most fascinating part about him?
That makes for a good, interesting read.
****.This work was subtitled, “The Character of Thomas Jefferson.” Ellis had previously written a book on the same theme as this one, but about John Adams.
What made this work on Jefferson a bit more difficult to write was the lack of early personal letters and documents that were all destroyed in a fire at Jefferson’s home.
The two major achievements that most people remember from their history classes about Jefferson was that he wrote the Declaration of Independence, and was in office and negotiated the Louisiana Purchase.
I had read this with the idea of balancing the negative perspective on Jefferson in the book “Hamilton.” Ellis is both critical and complementary, writing on Jefferson’s weaknesses, then steering toward his strengths and accomplishments.
It is like a storm in the atmosphere.” Ellis analysis goes on to say, “His remarks suggested that his deepest allegiances were not to the preservation of political stability but to its direct opposite.” He opposed Federalist visions of an energetic national government because in his view it undermined the original intentions of the American Revolution, wherein lay the opposition to any power accumulated by the King and court.
The book is very readable if you are reasonably familiar with the important people and events in the early years of America.It's a fascinating study of the man's inherent contradictions, the most obvious being that Jefferson was a slaveowner who became famous for his writings on equality and personal freedom.In my 1996 edition of this book, Ellis writes that he does not believe that Jefferson had an affair with Sally Hemings.
(I thought this a rather strange view, considering that Martha Jefferson's health was eroded by repeated pregnancies.) In later editions of the book, Ellis acknowledges that a 1998 DNA study offered proof that at least one of Sally's children was fathered by Jefferson, and it was therefore likely that they were all fathered by him.

American Sphinx posits that Thomas Jefferson is not a hypocrite but such an ardent political idealist that he compartmentalized the aspects of himself that he psychologically could not deal with and so self deceived himself.
I think Ellis is an ardent fan of Jefferson, but wisely, he doesn't shy away from Jefferson's faults; however, he also doesn't completely relay the entirety of Jefferson's life to the reader.
This is by no means a complete biography, but it is very readable -- particularly if you already know a little about Jefferson's life.
I also can't help but love Ellis' title.
I've only read one other book about Jefferson but I've read several others about the founding fathers and I'm absolutely convinced that this is the best I'll ever read about Thomas Jefferson.Ellis writes incredibly well- poetic, detailed, erudite as all hell, and smoothly- with grace.
Not his mind or soul or heart so much as all three put together and the cloud of ideas and opinions he carried with him, as we all do.Complex man and a complex book, but Ellis handles everything put together here with amazing organization and balance.So georgeously written that I had to read more by him, and I did.
Founding Brothers was first-rate, and the Washington book was good enough, but this is truly an all-surpassing masterpiece.
The second half of this book was more intriguing than the first.
Ellis gives several examples of paradox in the politics/philosophies of Jefferson.
Nonetheless, Jefferson is very intriguing.
I now believe that no politician should ever quote Jefferson because he lived in a very different time and his philosophies are impossible to make relevant in modern times.
My ignorance has put all of these men on pedestals like Gods but just through reading just 2 books on 2 of them shows me the parallels between politics then and now and shows me they were imperfect men being politicians.
I get the sense you either love him or you don't. We're not talking hate, necessarily, just a sliding spectrum of dislike ranging from never having considered the Jeffersonian point of view to a deep concern for what is at best naivety and at worst willful duplicity. Ellis provides only the highlights of Jefferson's life, focusing on periods of accomplishment or intellectual growth, but it is a solid starting point for understanding how Jefferson fits into the early narrative of the American experiment.
What it is not is a traditional biography or even an abbreviated narrative of Jefferson’s entire life - but as I have discovered by now, this is par for the course for a Joseph Ellis book on a revolutionary-era president.Instead of following the story of Jefferson’s life in a single, continuous arc “American Sphinx” focuses on five significant periods in his life, observing his thoughts and actions during each of these periods and considering what can be learned about this enigmatic man.
This biographical issue may not have been as pronounced had I previously read a dedicated Jefferson biography, but unfortunately my exposure to him this far has been through general histories of the Revolution and biographies of his contemporaries.Now, as for Ellis' discussion of his character itself, I found it difficult to follow.
O'Malley seemed rough and halting far too often, as if she was looking at the book for the first time as they were recording her.All in all, I was disappointed by Sphinx since, as I've said, I'd enjoyed Ellis' work before.
This book is a well disguised attack on Jeffersonian ideals of smaller government...accomplished through lengthy "psychoanalytic" attacks on Jefferson's character.
Ellis chiefly does this by showing Jefferson to be a secretive, ultimately anarchic radical who was incapable of perceiving the need for political governance under the Constitution (the "necessary evil" described by Paine in Commons Sense).Perhaps most telling is the fact that Ellis goes out of his way to explain that he does not consider Jefferson to be insane: "Jefferson was not--let us be clear and emphatic on this point--a mentally unstable person or a man with latent paranoid tendencies.
Like his subject, the author seems almost obsessed at times with certain aspects of Jefferson's contradictory personality, especially his views on slavery.
It seems intolerable that the same man who wrote the most famous and eloquent summary of American views on liberty and equality, and who early in his career called in strong terms for the eventual abolition of slavery, could have failed so remarkably in his own life on such a fundamental moral question.
Yet while it isn't very useful to condemn a historical figure based on modern values, it is also important to remember that many of Jefferson's contemporaries viewed slavery in basically present-day terms.
As the biography outlines, he could be as vicious a political assassin as there was (e.g., his attacks on John Adams through others, while trying to keep his own hands "clean"), but he did not appear to want to accept or confront this in himself.
At one time, John Adams and Thomas Jefferson were great friends, founding cousins, as it were, of the new republic.
This is not a massive biography, but it is useful and does a nice job of portraying the "Sphinx"-like quality of one of the most fascinating of our Founders.
Ellis was consistently patronizing and apologetic in his discussions about Thomas Jefferson's thoughts, ideas and actions.
Ellis' own unsavory history of self-deception and public lies seems to have been reflected right back onto Thomas Jefferson.
After all, isn't it true that it's almost impossible to interpret the thoughts and actions of others except through the lens of our own character?
As Mr. Ellis seems indeed to have done here.This biography was also a chronicle of Jefferson's political self mainly; the larger picture of his life was mostly ignored and it is that larger picture that makes Jefferson most interesting, I think.
I find myself a little disappointed by a lot of the reviews for this book.
Ellis presents a character study via several historical vignettes.
It can become easy to lionize the revolutionary generation because of the distance in history, and I like that Ellis draws attention to this right along side talking about his achievements.
This book does not have a political agenda either.
Ultimately, this is a well written character study involving an icon of early American history.
I generally do not care much for early American history, but this book makes me want to seek out the author's books on Adams and Washington.
Jefferson was a boring, introverted, man with ridiculous ideas.
I believe Jefferson was a plagiarist, from the Declaration of Independence to his thoughts on God stolen from a deist.
Jefferson was in truth a secular humanist.
He was a failure as a farmer and business man and lived far beyond his means.
One man said, "I got you elected with lies, I can get you out of office with truths." Politics has been vicious since the beginning of the nation.As a man, Jefferson was a let-down.
In fact, I closed the book not liking him.Ellis's book on Washington was much more enjoyable.
I didn't realize Jefferson was such a wild utopian. One generation should not be able to bind another, with debts, laws, etc? Wow. I found Ellis's elucidation of Jefferson's thinking excellent. He picks out a lot of fun, lively quotes as well. The glimpse I got of Adams through this book makes me want to read John Adams by McCullough next.I'm docking it one star for being somewhat repetitive, and for the rather tedious tie-ins to today at the beginning and end of the book-- those are dated now, and boring.
While it argues that we have to study Jefferson as a man in his time, it seems that even in his time he was out of step in many of his core beliefs (again slavery but also generally his thoughts about diversity, the role of Federal government and the compromises implicit and explicit in the Constitution).
Also the fact that he probably plagiarized the most famous line from the Declaration of Independence lessens that accomplishment slightly and funnily makes the Louisiana Purchase (which went against Jefferson's main belief in the role of Federal government) his most impressive and important accomplishment in my mind.
Ellis stresses, among other things, that Jefferson was tasked with writing the declaration as an afterthought because nobody thought it was that important at the time.
Jefferson’s first term is rightly seen as among the most successful in American history, but this is largely due to his luck in inheriting a failed Adams administration, whose failures corrected themselves and whose successes he could take credit for.
But then, of course, we are told that many of his best phrases were probably plagiarized, and most of the ideas he expressed in his various writings were derivative, not to mention impractical.
But every great character needs a great foil, and American Sphinx is a great foil to David McCullough's excellent John Adams biography.
I'm not an expert, but this seems like a fair appraisal of Jefferson; Ellis does an especially excellent job of handling the slavery issue, and Jefferson's compelling relationships with Adams and Madison.
Still, I do feel the need to read more Jefferson after this, not just because I'm greatly interested in the man, but also because Ellis passes over some of the more notable moments of Jefferson's life: his governorship, his term as secretary of state, and indeed, the entire second term of his presidency.
If someone is looking for a Jefferson biography in a sub 400 page book, then they shouldn't read this. If you want interesting looks into Jefferson's mind when he wrote the Declaration of Independence, what he thought about the slavery issue, or why he made myriad decisions while in public service, then read this book. The author does a good job of separating fact from fandom. Jefferson was a good leader, but Ellis makes it clear that he shouldn't be considered America's greatest politician. A solid read.
