https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76207.The_Last_Sherlock_Holmes_Story
Oh my god. Literally. Just don't read this book. That's all I can say. Promise me? PROMISE? Don't do it. It'll ruin you for at least a whole day with rage and an intense feeling that you just wasted two hours of your life that you can't get back. But you know, if you want someone to take Holmes and mostly destroy him as a character then yeah, go for it. This is JUST the book for you. Otherwise, STAY AWAY.
Dibdin is a decent writer, and I found the writing itself rather enjoyable. That's the upside. But I absolutely detested this particular book because of the story and the premise. When I finished it, I wanted to throw it across the room, stomp on it, and then tear it into little pieces. I settled for fobbing it off to a used bookstore, where hopefully it languishes unread, instead of infecting the psyche of some other poor sod...
Its sophisticated (and darkly Gothic) psychological look not only at Holmes (whom I found to be poignantly redeemed at the end, contrary to what I'd expected from other reviews) but also at the wonderful Dr. Watson kept me very interested.
It's less successful as a thorough look at the Ripper phenomenon, but I suspect Dibdin always intended the Ripper murders to provide the backdrop for the tale rather than to carry it.
Whether or not you accept Dibdin's interpretation of Holmes, I think it's clear this work is both carefully and lovingly crafted with sincere attention to canonical detail.
As someone for whom the Holmes and Watson friendship is the cornerstone of my love for all things Sherlockian, even a story that damages the essential goodness and compassion of Sherlock Holmes in order to provide a big twist ending is going to win me back when Holmes reclaims that goodness and compassion to save his dearest friend.
Sherlock Holmes is loyal to Dr. Watson till the end, meaning this "Fight-Club"-esque Holmes tale is another Holmes-vs.-Ripper story that is going to stick with me for some time to come.
I do not consider myself a Sherlock Holmes purest, but I confess that a certain revelation in the story, when I came to it, did give me a few minutes of angst.
I spent more than a few minutes thinking about whether I could accept the story line and keep reading.
I thought Mr. Dibdin had caught the flavor Holmes and Watson very well.
I kept reading.I do not believe in spoiling a story for anyone else.
I will not tell the reader “Do Not Read this book”.Read it.
Appreciate the author, his imagination, and this pastiche into the Holmes and Watson story line.
Good but not good.One thing for sure is that no one is as good as Sir Arthur. I felt a bit of disappointment while reading this. Who told him to end the story like that???
Looking through the other reviews, I can see that either you love this book or you hate it. I'm in the first group. First, Dibdin shows you that he can capture the flavor of the old Arthur Conan Doyle stories perfectly; then, not content with merely imitating, he adds some disturbing new elements to the legend. In the afterword, he asks you to forgive him. It's heresy, he freely admits, but the heresy of the true believer. An eloquent and accurate summary!
"The Last Sherlock Holmes Story"is written by MIchael Dibdin. When I finished read this book, I can't believe the story of this book is a real story. It was very amazing and fantastic.Then, I didn't like this story of this book, when I first read this book, I thought this book like a Detective Conan, but it wasn't there not many mystery quiz.I like the part that Holmes and Mr. Waston show their friendship.
If you're a Sherlock Holmes fan, I don't think this is a book for you. This is supposed to be a Holmes story written by Dr. Watson and held back for 50 years as provided in his will. Perhaps it is a good reading novel, though you pretty much know what is going to happen part way through, but I didn't care for its portrayal of Holmes. The Holmes in this story is not "my" Holmes.
Bloody awful. How I finished is the real mystery.

Re-read this more than 35 years after it was first published. Probably the best Sherlock Holmes pastiche ever written. This was Michael Dibdin's 1st novel and it is a terrific tale, as Holmes and Watson try to hunt down Jack The Ripper. But there is a twist in this tale which is incredible. A must read for any fan of detective fiction.
An abomination of a Sherlock Holmes novel for the purists. On its own merits a weak story. Unsealed Watson papers cover Holmes' seeking to solve the Ripper murders. If this sounds lazy it's because it is.
I found this book truly disturbing.
Although written in a style that reflects the original writings, I have to say, just didn't like this book because of the terrible way it made Sherlock Holmes appear.
It was a twist that was obvious early in the book and it was sad that the author had to take Holmes and make him the killer.
With the way things are in the world, it would be nice to keep our "super heroes" and icons in a positive light to show that it's ok to be good and to do the right thing.
When I first began reading this I thought it was a good read which stayed true to the previous works of ACD but also gave some inventive explanations and changes to give a different perspective on the infamous Sherlock Holmes.
However, the twist is revealed half way through the book and, although abandoned by Watson as ridiculous at points, still does not lead to a surprise ending and appears to be very much an anti-climax after a trundling narrative in parts.
Although it is still worth a read, in my opinion it loses its way and tries too hard to provide some kind of amateur psychology on the complex, well loved character of Holmes.
An amazing idea to combine the most notorious unsolved crimes of Jack the Ripper with the most notorious crime solver, Sherlock Holmes. Made me want to research both more after finishing this book.

Non spoiler review: Avoid. It broke my heart and felt really off.(view spoiler)[ Holmes as Jack the freaking Ripper? And then Watson was also addicted to cocaine? No thank you. (hide spoiler)]Recommended 12+ for Jack the Ripper-ness and Holmes' drug use.
ممتازة مرة، ومنها قررت أقرأ الروايات الكاملة لشارلك هولمز ..شارلك هولمز يعتبر أشهر محقق خيالي..فيه هذه القصة - المختصرة طبعاً للمبتدئين - توفي شارلكوتعتبر هذه القصة صدمة للقراء ولم يتقبلوا الأمر بسهولة..بعد عدة سنوات عاد المؤلف لقصص شارلك وكتب رواية أحيى فيها شارك مرة أخرى،، وسميت القترة بين وفاة شارلك وحياته بـ (التوقف الكبير)
As a teenager I read the entirety of my Dad's Sherlock Holmes volumes, poured over every Strand drawing and fell a little bit in love.
If you are an aspiring author let me tell you this - just because you have an idea doesn't mean you should write it.
I think Moffat and Gatiss make reference to it in the latest TV version of Sherlock Holmes.
I think the bits where Sergeant Donovan is saying that he's a freak and one day he'll get bored of just detecting murder are hinting at the idea this book puts out.
I am, admittedly, a diehard Holmes fan, and I cannot deny that I found it a bit painful imagining this iconic hero as a villain.
He draws upon concrete details straight from A.C.D. Any fan would have to agree that Holmes is, without a doubt, an unstable personality, and he ties loose ends together nicely.
However, the foreword ruined what could have been an interesting and shocking twist.
Also, it would be nice if the publishers would refrain from using words like "twist", "controversial", and "shocking" on the cover.
What could be more "shocking" or "controversial" than Holmes himself being "Jack the Ripper"?
An extremely clever take on the whole Holmes v/s Ripper concept, with a twist-ending that will take your breath away!
I know, it reads like those blurbs that we get to read on paperbacks ('The cover will show you somebody shot/the back will tell you what is the plot'!), but that is the most succint description of this book that I can produce without producing spoilers en masse!
Recommended reading for stormy & foggy nights, when you are waiting for your family to return home, and the road is getting more & more deserted!
Who the hell did this author think he was?*spoiler*He starts by turning the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle into a fictional character whom Watson has allowed to borrow his notes in order to write a book on Holmes. Holmes reads and insults a study in scarlet claiming that the Mormon stuff was all made up.Holmes then turns out to be Jack the freakin Ripper! The author even takes the time to insist that The last stand was a fake ending!An absolute insult to the original books.DO NOT READ!!!!!
OK, so this was a second-time read, but despite knowing the ending I enjoyed the clever way Dibdin dovetails Holmes and Watson into the grisly events in Whitechapel in 1888 – an over-used fictional conceit these days, but pretty original when the story was published in ‘78. A compelling and authentic voice that stops short of lampooning Conan Doyle’s bumbling Doctor or his enigmatic ‘consulting detective’.
This review should contain only one word, that is - BULLSHIT.A boy whose name starts with Q spoiled this book's ending to me when I was at high school. So I did not check it out until now. What can I say? The ending, when I first heard it, was already bullshit enough. But now, after reading this and experiencing the writing (which was actually good) and the plot, I still think it is bullshit.
Hmmm it seems people either love or hate this book but I'm somewhat torn. I hated the writing style and the gore (I don't need to read about foetuses in jars thank you very much) but I loved the plot and conclusion. To watch our beloved Sherlock become quite insane was actually a very enthralling prospect. And I have to admit that from what I have heard this one ties in very nicely with the BBC series.
If you can’t conceive our favorite hero portrayed as a hopeless drug addict turned into a madman with a split personality disorder, stay away from this book. But if you can stomach a different –but very logical- take of Sherlock Holmes, you will be treated to a very intelligent, well written story with a devastatingly gritty end.
Four stars because I think the writing is very good, and I rather liked how Didbin managed to answer my "But what about the...?" questions by the end. It's definitely an odd book, and I couldn't quite buy into this particular version of Holmes. I do wonder how I would have reacted had I not actually already known the twist going in, but there's nothing to be done about that.
This book is a well-written obscenity. If one were able to give a book a negative five star rating, this one would deserve it. If you love the character of Sherlock Holmes, with all his strengths and flaws, this book will leave you traumatized and enraged. Fair warning.
