https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29868610-scrappy-little-nobody
All I knew about her going into these books was Pitch Perfect and Twilight... and I have learned that she essentially plays herself.   But here's the thing about crazy: It. Wants. Out. I love it. Her book is quirky, endearing and fun. She swings from: Maybe we all have impostor syndrome and perpetually feel like our real life is right around the corner. to:  'Oh my god, I just made out with Legolas!' Again, I’m not going to name that actor, as I wish to respect his privacy  every few pages and i
All I knew about her going into these books was Pitch Perfect and Twilight...
and I have learned that she essentially plays herself.
Her book is quirky, endearing and fun.
One moment she's waxing poetic about singing in her first stage play and the next she's making out with boys.
(though...I could've done with a bit less boys and a bit more introspective reflections/quirky jokes.)I really enjoyed her recollections of the startup of her career and her thoughts on child acting.
Her voice was pitch perfect (ha) throughout and bumped this book from a 3.5 to a 4.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
And once I found out, I was so nauseated that my daydreams would only reach the point where I kissed the object of my affection (a.k.a. the middle brother from 3 Ninjas) before the dream cut out like a busted VHS and started again from the beginning.”The level of specificity rattled me because this is 100% me.Kendrick also took the time to address “friend-zoning” and it made my heart sing:“I wrongly assumed the late ask and casual tone meant “as friends.” I was grossed out and frankly kind of hurt when he drove me to a motel after the dance.
I tried to read the physical book awhile back but couldn't get into it so I decided to listen to it on audio and loved it. The book is pretty short. I started it last night at bedtime and finished this morning. It was so much better with Anna reading her own book and I rather enjoyed it 😊
Another reviewer said a lot of what I think, and quite honestly if I had read their review earlier I probobly would not have bought this.
I acknowledge I am not the target audience, but I did like Anna's movies and always respect someone who has worked their way up the ranks.Dispite Anna Kendrick's kooky image, this is not a light reading book.
The first clue that Kendrick is not the innocent soul we see on screen is the language in the book, lot of sprinkles if f bombs, and every cuss under the sun.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.So, I kinda have a thing for Anna Kendrick. I've been (healthily) obsessed with her since 2003, when she appeared in an indie movie called  Camp , which was about kids attending a performing arts summer camp in upstate New York.Anna played a young girl named Fritzi, who had an obsession with a girl named Jill, who starred in most of the plays that summer. But Jill mistreated Fritzi, so in the end, Fritzi got her revenge, as you'll see in the clip at https://youtu.be/W8y9p
, which was about kids attending a performing arts summer camp in upstate New York.Anna played a young girl named Fritzi, who had an obsession with a girl named Jill, who starred in most of the plays that summer.
Anna shows up about 25 seconds into the clip.)Not only do I think she's an exceptionally talented singer and performer (I've worn out tracks from 
(Kind of.) This isn't a tell-all book in any way (although she has some nice things to say about a few celebrities, like Zac Efron), but rather a first-hand look at the growth of a star, from her earliest (disastrous) beginnings as a child in dance class to success, including Tony and Oscar nominations."I'd thought of myself as fearful and shrinking in childhood, but I was often single-minded and pugnacious.
There were a few parts where I laughed out loud!
I'm not a super huge fan and don't know very much about Anna Kendrick outside of the roles she's played, so I didn't realize she came from such a normal background and has such a regular life (despite the whole, you know...
The most relatable part by far:"I was never the girl to strap on a snowboard and head straight for a black diamond, but if I saw "advanced" in the corner of a Martha Stewart Living recipe, I'd think, bring it on you crazy bitch."

Typical memoir from a celebrity – not much juicy info – and dull, especially regarding the love-life department. But Ms Kendrick does write well.

I find myself thinking, "I wouldn't believe this guy if he warned me about an impending nuclear fallout; he's an asshole."I was going to write a one-star review for this.
I was thinking, "I will start the review like this: I like Anna Kendrick, I think she is cute and funny, but perhaps she shouldn't write a book.
It's kind of a turnoff."The saddest thing is she was on Cloud 9 with her first sexual partner, wanting to try everything, being so enthusiastic and cute, and this fucker just shit all over it.It's completely something that happens to females all the time in real life.
I laughed out loud several times, which is rare for me when reading (or listening to) a book.
Her humor was funny without being too forced, and even though the first chunk of the book focuses on her working on projects I'd never heard of, I was still fascinated by everything she's gone through and her story.I particularly like Anna's discussions about feminism, both in dating and in the acting world.
It was overall an interesting read and it really humanized Anna instead of making her seem like "I'm an actress!
Anna's stories were generally funny.
It's funny, though, because she kinda acts like she is just a b-lister who is likely not to be recognized, but I am pretty sure I would be pretty aware at this point if I happened to be eating one table over from her.She spends most of the first part of the book talking about boys .
I liked those because I can go back and watch those movies or find YouTube clips and see exactly what she is talking about.If you like to read celebrity biographies - check this one out.

Audiobook I dedicate this review to Steven....A 'short' review! May you enjoy your coffee in peace, Steven."Great things come in small packages"!  Anna: "small' on you is classy, sexy, funny, audacious, powerful, genuine, and magnificent! Anna is phenomenal in the movie "Up in the Air"..... and terrific as Cinderella in movie version of "Into the Woods"!Just sayin!!!A fun - down to earth - adorable - Audiobook memoir!
I love Anna Kendrick as an actress and recently she has held a lot of funny parts, so I just assumed this book would be funny.
There were a lot of times that I could tell she was trying to be funny, but not a single part of this book made me laugh out loud.But besides the lack of humor this book was pretty interesting.
I loved how this book was completely about her life and they were all true to her story of how she got to where she is now.
The girl from Twilight not Pitch Perfect haha.Anna covered all the pressures and weird experiences you have as an actress.
I don't know about you, but I never really felt happy for them; more like complete and utter envy.Anna Kendrick however, had to work her ASS off to be where she is.
I wonder how annoying it would be for her to realize that there are people out there (i.e. yours truly) who tend to primarily remember the actress for this particular role?Then again, she doesn't seem to share my opinion of it being a movie/series only worth giggling one's way through.For some reason I felt sort of weird, when she praised Kristen Stuart's work ethic.
Read the manuscript (don't worry, we don't have bound books yet!) and wrote LOL in the margins whenever I actually LOLed, and my pages are now absolutely filled with them.
3.35/5 starsi'm too lazy to write a review for this, friends. happy thanksgiving!
i'm not usually one to read celebrity books but i mean. anna kendrick. the blurb alone makes me smile already. completely effortless.
Lots of things she said, I felt myself nodding to, which is always a great experience when listening to somebody's life story.I also loved her insights into more feminist topics.
While this isn't hard-hitting in the slightest and Anna Kendrick's life does seem to have been mostly alright, it was still a great book to listen to.
Like I have said in other reviews, sometimes it is just nice to see how other people's life turned out the way they wanted, regardless of how difficult the journey there was.
I’m a big fan of Anna Kendrick’s and will always watch the latest movie she is in regardless of what the subject matter is about, so I was really keen to get this biography.Charting her childhood through theatre to get break into movies this really gives a great insight into her life.Most importantly I could hear Anna’s voice whilst I was reading it.I really like her quirky humour and it was exactly the book I’d hoped it to be.
(Though scripted work is much different than book deals.) I'm not her biggest fan; however, my sister is obsessed with her which is how I found out about this & ended up going with her on Anna's book tour back in November.
I was put-off by several things & felt a distance from her, making me not connect or care for hearing about her life.
Her relationship with her brother seemed intriguing; it would have been nice to hear more about her family life, other than just the parts regarding her career.
For memoirs where you actually walk away with something other than nausea, see Bryan Cranston's or Trevor Noah's work.
My review of Scrappy Little Nobody by Anna Kendrick is based purely on emotion & not its literary value.
But mainly I'm giving it 5 Stars because I'm sick & reading this book made me feel a little better.
Anna Kendrick is one of my favorite actresses & this book made her one of my favorite people.
Once again I implore you to take this with a grain of salt because I'm currently & have been for the last 2 days high on cold meds.
Readers having a bad day or sick readers who feel like they've been run over by a garbage truck.
(talking about books, though also conversation most of the time.) It's soothing to listen to someone talk and I think there is a truthful, more tangible quality when listening to the person who wrote the stories read them.
All I am saying is that Anna Kendrick sounds -- and I'm certain she'd be happy to hear this -- like a real, live person while she reads her book.Every time I go into a memoir, I get a sense of excitement that might be even bigger than with fiction, because they can make you truly appreciate a person so much more.
This woman is a wonderful writer! The book is easy to read and hugely entertaining.  I am not a huge bio reader. It's probably less than one percent of the books I read. But I am so glad I read this one!! Actually I listened to the audio and read it also. Although the book is brilliantly written, the audio hits it out of the park. Anna Kendrick is an amazing actress and she shines in the audio. It adds so much to the experience!
This was a lot of fun and interesting to get to know Anna better. Perfect title :)
Anna Kendrick is one of my favorite actresses, and I absolutely love her in The Accountant, 50/50, End of Watch, Mike & Dave Need Wedding Dates, Up In The Air, Pitch Perfect, etc.
It just gives me a lot of hope.I also loved hearing so many behind the scenes stories from Into The Woods, Twilight, Pitch Perfect, Mike & Dave Need Wedding Dates, and more.
Anna Kendrick is so hilarious and charming and I adore her and this book was pretty awesome.
If you're a fan of Anna Kendrick I have no doubt you would also enjoy this book.
She talks a little about her childhood, but overall her childhood was nice so it wasn’t like I got a moving story or anything that made me glued to the pages.
I kind of wanted a little more gossip, especially with Pitch Perfect and all the drama I’ve read about it.The book is really PC and there really wasn’t any drama or juice stories to read, so if that is your cuppa, you will be happy.
She talks about her ex’s but there wasn’t anything moving about them too.Overall, I enjoyed some parts of the book and I was a little disappointed with other parts.
I was not a big fan of Anna Kendrick before reading this book, but now I can safely say that she is my spirit animal. The girl is amazing and crazy at the same time. I loved every minute of this book and actually listening to Anna narrate her book was an amazing experience. I just wish there was more.
I think the best tidbit I took away from Anna Kendrick's book of funny personal essays was not to put too much stock in “nice.” Being nice, as Kendrick explains, usually means being compliant.
I've already been working on setting boundaries and holding to them, even when people try to push me, but having Anna Kendrick's adorable voice in my head sure reinforces those decisions.
So thanks, Anna Kendrick, for reinforcing the recalcitrance my husband has been cultivating in me!)Of course, there's a lot to like in her book besides that one nugget of wisdom.
