https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209285.Letter_from_Peking
The story is about a loving interracial marriage between Gerald and Elizabeth MacLeod, their separation due to the communist uprising in China in 1945, and their separate lives in China and America.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیستم ماه ژوئیه (جولای) سال 1970 میلادیعنوان: نامه ای از پکن؛ نویسنده: پرل باک؛ مترجم: بهمن فرزانه؛ تهران، انتشارات فرانکلین، 1346، در 172 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: 1993، در 168 ص؛ شابک: 9789640015858؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، علمی فرهنگی، 1394؛ در 207 ص؛ شابک: 9786001217012؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: نامه ای از پکن؛ نویسنده: پرل باک؛ مترجم: داریوش شاهین؛ تهران، مهتاب، 1370، در 271 ص؛داستان زنی آمریکایی، که با یک مرد دورگه ی: «چینی - آمریکایی»، ازدواج میکند؛ و در پی این ازدواج، به همراه همسرش به پکن میروند.
اما پس از انقلاب کمونیستی چین، با اصرار همسرش، زن به همراه پسرش، دوباره به آمریکا برمیگردند.
"Gerald has not deserted me nor I him. We are divided by history, past and present." —ElizabethWhat a heartbreaking, but uplifting story! I feel like the themes tackled in this book are perfect for readers of Celeste Ng's work. This epistolary novel is written in the form of a long diary entry. In it, Elizabeth seeks to make sense of a letter her husband, Gerald, has sent her from Peking, where he remains amidst China's Cultural Revolution. This last letter is a catalyst for Elizabeth, who has
I feel like the themes tackled in this book are perfect for readers of Celeste Ng's work.
Gerald is biracial, his father American and mother Chinese, and Elizabeth takes us back to their first encounter and eventual marriage.
This edition included a small biography of Buck's life complete with photographs.
In learning about the things she was passionate about, you can definitely see the common theme in her novels.
I feel like she was the perfect author to read in honor of Women's History Month."For her body of work, Buck was awarded the 1938 Nobel Prize in Literature—the first American woman to have won this honor.
In this gently written story in the manner that only Pearl Buck can write, a woman living in Vermont (where Pearl Buck had one of her homes) is dealing with the separation she must endure from her half-Chinese husband who is living in Peking, China.
Pearl has said that this book “reaches deep into my own life...Elizabeth is not myself and yet she is myself in some aspects, in character if not in events.” (“For Spacious Skies:Journey in Dialogue”) Pearl goes on to say that the husband in the story was based on a young man in her own life whose father was American and mother was Chinese.
One of the best and unfortunately most forgotten of Ms. Buck's fantastic catalog. The story of one women torn across two countries by the love of one man and the forces of history. Nothing is more heart-breaking than a love thwarted by forces outside of human control. This book revels slowly the with finesse and exquisite detail the pain and longing of a love lost.Find it. Read it.
Meanwhile Elizabeth lives on hope, and nourishes her life through the deep and unending love for Gerald.
It records events that are simple and plain, emotions that are deep and pure.Pearl Buck's tales have so much realism in them that within a few pages they cease to be a story, a novel - they transform to images of real people living their realities, without embellishments, fancy twists or miracles.
Elizabeth comes to life representing many separated and lonely women - victims of the world breaking apart.The writing in this book is one of Pearl Buck's best.
From the very first pages, I fell in love with book and the writer both. And to be fair my Persian edition translated by Bahman Farzaneh has a significant role in this good sense. Also the writing method that was daily memoir which later I noticed it has so many resemblances with Mrs. Buck's life. Reading the others' daily memoir with the writer's permission is very sweet and pleasant.
This is a wonderful story about love, and family, and country.
A married couple who are very much in love are torn apart by politics & duty when the husband, who is 1/2 Chinese, decides to stay in newly Communist China, while the wife, who is American, flees back to America with their son.
Their son grows up and wrestles with his identity, feeling he must choose between his mother and his father, America and China.
Flashbacks of the couple's romance and time living in Peking are woven through the story.
I loved the comparisons of Peking to the countryside of Vermont.
I found this 1950's paperback among my Gran's things after she died and it looked so trashy that I read it for a laugh.
As soon as I got into it though, I realised it was a bit special.
The book is evocative of China and focuses on a woman's relationship with her seventeen year old son and the father of her husband.
The husband is forbidden to leave China and the son and grandfather are the only links she has to them.
It's a slow, sad book and would make an excellent movie, no doubt with Julianne Moore playing the lead!
I just can't say enough about how much I admire this little lady.
Read it on the Kindle and there was an amazing quote or deep thought on every single page.
She is just so full of wisdom and insight it just ain't fair.
The only reason it didn't get 5 stars is I found it a bit comical that every man that came to the door fell in love with her and proposed marriage and she kept talking about how plain and boring she was.
I loved how my Kindle version had pictures of her in the back and lots of photos.
Heart wrenching tale of romance
a quiet, lovely and romantic story of longing
'Mijn innig geliefde, het is beter voor ons als we niet aan de dag van weerzien denken.
Als hij mij vergeet, laat het dan zo zijn.'Het is duidelijk wat er is gebeurd.
Ze stopt daar vrij snel weer mee om naar China terug te gaan om voor haar zieke moeder te zorgen.
Hun contact wordt zo intiem dat Pearl in 1935 gaat scheiden van Buck en trouwt met Walsh.
Ze gebruikt nog wel de naam van John Buck, omdat dat haar bekendheid gaf.
Buck de Nobelprijs voor de Literatuur en is daarmee de eerste vrouw die zowel de Pulitzer als de Nobelprijs wint.
I knew only my nation and this so vast that within its endless borders even I can be a stranger.""But I have known the fullness of love, an achievement absolute in height and depth, and I wish for my son a like joy.""Loneliness is what I feel here in my own land.
From generation to generation the new born heart is wounded afresh and cannot be healed until love is found, in someone, somewhere.""My comfort and my pleasure are in such small things.
It is the small things that are eternal.""There never was a revolution in man's history that paid its way.
What was interesting to me is that this book was one of my favorites as a teenager, and I remembered it as very special.
I'm not sure if it's because the book seems so much more formal and old-fashioned than most or if I've gotten used to more action-packed books rather than thoughtful reflections.
I loved the references to Gerald's formal Chinese manners and precise beliefs--they indicated so strongly how powerful family is in China.
And I could feel for Rennie's struggles with his dual nationality, particularly with the unrest in China at that time with the growth of the Communist regime.
Letter from Peking is an epistolary novel told through the protagonist Elizabeth's journal entries and letters received in Vermont, where she has relocated with her son to her family home after living with her (half-Chinese) husband in Peking before the Communist takeover.
It's quite moving, yet at the same time, I found myself frustrated at the fact that while Elizabeth possesses the pivotal "letter of Peking" from her husband, for which the story is titled, at the beginning of the novel, she withholds the contents of that pivotal letter from the reader until halfway through.The second half of the novel is much more plot-driven, largely because of this revelation.
"Where is that land where we once lived?"Letter from Peking draws a strong and emotional comparison between the happy and loving life a family once enjoyed and the lonely life they now lead separated from each other.
It is a story of lost love, of longing for a time that was so beautiful, but no longer there.
"a mother always knows the girl her son loves")But it is a solid story.
People move on with their lives, broken though they may be.I did not enjoy Letter from Peking as much as The Good Earth which is also by Pearl Buck.
(Though to be honest I'd totally expected Matt to be the one rather than Bruce and Sam)The ending, like I said, is bittersweet rather than pure tragedy: Eve's father in law and husband die, but she's gained a daughter in law she loves and seems content with her lot in life.
I like that she didn't re-marry, too, even though Rennie said he'd be okay with it.
I'm a fan of well-done bittersweet endings and this was among the best.
However, this one is a little different because the setting is in Vermont with an American lady narrating the story.
Her husband is half Chinese and they lived in China for awhile so there are a few flashbacks and mentions of Chinese customs, but not so much as her other books.
Very sad book about an American wife who is separated from her husband in China when the country became communist.
Touching how she managed to stay so true to her husband after more than a decade of separation with little word from him.
I'm between 4 and 5 stars on this one, but I have to say I loved it! Pearl Buck is such a great writer, and her interests in Asia and women and love and family fall right in line with my own. The main character is an intelligent, honest woman whose beloved husband stays in (1950) Communist China while she and their son move to the United States. Her relationships with her son, husband and husband's father, whom she takes into her home, are full of insights and wisdom. Thoughts on honor and love are interwoven throughout.
I loved this book.
I'm not even sure if I can say why.
It's so simply and yet deeply written and tells so much in relatively few short pages (a slim volume).
I found the story incredibly romantic and mature, tying two lovely places - Peking and Vermont - together and impossibly entwined.
It's a story of new love.
And old love.
And the love between a mother and son.
And second loves.
*For my young single friends (and you know who you are ;)), I'd rate this as somewhat PG for mature themes and implied sexual content.
This was a lovely book about love in a world that was divided by "barriers of race, politics, distance and misunderstanding." Elizabeth is an American woman who marries a man who is half Chinese, while they are in China, and he sends her back to America, while he remains in Communist China as a Professor.
Throughout the story we are introduced to Rennie, their son, and Elizabeth's Father in law, who is old and alone.
Themes of family, roots, Chinese culture, the quiet and simple beauty of Vermont, and most of all Love, stream throughout this delightful, and haunting tale by Pearl S.
Buck.
I really liked this book. I usually don't like sad books and this one was very sad. Very sad. It's about an American woman who married a 1/2 Chinese man, and went to live in Peking. They had a son and when Communism took over the husband sent wife and son to the US to be safe while he stayed in China. I won't give any more away. I can't imagine going through what the wife goes through. This also is in a 1957 Reader's Digest book, so it's a bit easier to understand the bigotry remembering that.
I’m fairly certain I’ve mentioned before how Pearl S. Buck’s books strike me as one enormous poem. Not in the “really flower and I’m not sure what she’s saying sense” but in that every sentence describes exactly what she wishes it to in a beautiful way you’d never consider saying it yourself. Even though the plot of this novel didn’t pick me up and grab me and swing me around, it was delightful to read simply because of the tone and attitude of the words themselves.
i read it in arabic ,, it's the first time to read a novel for pearl s buck but she was more than great in this book ,, all ways of love was in this book and the most adorable one was the story of elizabeth .. i loved thy way she discussed all of this ,, maybe she lived alone but i think that's the best for her full of love story ,, if i were her i would choose that :Di will read all of her novels
True Pearl S. Buck style- simple and well-written. Story of a family split between the 2 cultures of China and America. It is an old book, but is still a good story. Our public library doesn't own a copy so the book had to be requested and I'm glad that I did. After reading several of her books I'd like to visit the Pearl S. Buck home in the Philadelphia area.
I like this book. It is filled with love, patriotism, and responsibility. A love so deepfelt between two far-away countries and cultures. I've read it several times, each time it always gives such a very relieved feeling with its special writing style, very gentle but highly expressive.
It was one of those books that I couldn't decide if I liked or not, but it definitely made me think, and I could identify closely with the character, which in the end made it a book I would want to revisit.
En djupt vacker berättelse om kärlek och identitet, dröm och verklighet, som skildras genom ett, om inte ännu vackrare, språkbruk.Är så glad att jag läste den.
What's in the letter?! I was hooked throughout the whole book wondering what was in the letter. It wasn't a disappointing revelation.
A precious story!A precious story about love across races, cultures, generations, languages, countries, and time! I couldn't put it down and I shall read it again and again!
