https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1056157.The_L_wensk_ld_Ring
There were many strands to follow up on to make sense of this ghost story featuring a powerful general and his cherished ring - a symbol of the military power that Karl XII, Sweden's "hjältekonung", or hero king, exerted over people long after he died.Arbitrary Power!Karl XII is an ambiguous figure in Swedish history, a military leader who still attracts the radical right and makes them dream of Sweden as a "stormakt", or great power.
There is the question of superstition and justice - and this is where my middle son gets angry and frustrated.The ring accidentally comes into the possession of a family unrelated with the Löwenskjölds, and three men are put on trial for theft and murder, despite complete lack of evidence.
Löwensköldska ringen, Selma Lagerlöfتاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1989 میلادیآشفتگان شیفته شامل سه کتاب است: کتاب اول: ص 9 تا 102 انگشتری ژنرال؛ کتاب دوم: ص 103 تا 364 شارلوت لوئنسکولد؛ کتاب سوم: ص 365 تا 654 آنا سوارد؛ اثر: سلما لاگرلوو، نویسنده و نخستین زن برنده ی جایزه ی نوبل در ادبیات هستند؛ جناب پرویز داریوش مینویسند، بیشتر داستانهای بانو سلما اوتیلیانا لاگرلوو، که در بیستم نوامبر 1858 میلادی در درمار باکه، از ایالت وارملند در کشور سوئد، زاده شده و در مارس 1940 میلادی چشم از جهان فرو بسته، چیزی هستند میان نثر عادی و معمول در نقل، و ساگاو فولکلور.
Um objecto encantador,na sua totalidade. A beleza estética do livro,na extraordinária edição da e-primatur, faz justiça plena a uma parábola metafísica sobre a posse e a lealdade. Ao primeiro contacto com Selma Lagerlof não consigo deixar de me impressonar com a precisão fina da sua escrita,e todo o exercício de contenção férrea com que tratou um género muito dado a excessos. Não há personagens puras nem bidimensionais, apesar do classicismo temático, e isso,só por si, é assinalável. Espero que haja fôlego editorial para o resto da triologia.
A voice clear as an icy mountain spring and yet somehow cosy and comfortable tells the tale of General Lowenskold's ring in the mode of modern fairytale that has a wise but humble narrator occasionally addressing the reader, selective character development and ethical ambiguity rather than archetypal villainy and heroism, and critical consciousness of gender and class context, yet retaining the framework of legend and adventure sweeping through the lives of people in a variety of social positions, from the smallholder's daughter to the king.What is sparkling about this from the first is the creative staging of uncertainty.
Ho già detto che a leggere questo libro la mia prima impressione era stata quella di vivere la storia stessa come se mi fosse stata raccontata oralmente da qualcuno, magari da un genitore che non l'ha mai fatto.
Dal quel giorno Löwensköld divenne il Generale, rispettato e temuto da tutti e non si staccò mai più dal suo anello, che portò con sé nella tomba, come unica cosa realmente importante.
I read this more than 20 years ago, and had vaguely remembered it as a rather standard ghost story; poor farmer in the deep woods of 18th century Värmland is possessed by greed in a weak moment, steals a priceless ring off the corpse of an old nobleman, and death and misfortune follow those to whom the ring passes until it's returned.
well, again, it was written with a sequel in mind, but it still feels a bit sudden in its blatant unfairness.What makes it more than worth reading, though, is that much like in her earlier novels, Lagerlöf is clever - not to mention compassionate.
https://osrascunhos.com/2018/07/18/o-...Poucas personagens são tão miseráveis quanto as de Selma Lagerlof em O Anel dos Lowenskolds.
Quando morre os filhos deixam-no no caixão com o anel, como era de sua vontade, mas o excessivo zelo de um agricultor leva ao roubo da jóia antes de ser posta terra por cima do caixão.A partir daqui quem detém o anel cai em desgraça, uma maldição do fantasma que não descansa enquanto não lho restituirem no dedo.
Perché cos’è in fondo l’anima dell’uomo, se non una fiamma che gioca?
Si agita dentro, sopra, intorno a lui, come la fiamma dentro sopra e intorno alla ruvida legna.
E così quando la gente si riuniva intorno al camino nelle sere d’inverno e rimaneva seduta in silenzio a guardarlo, il fuoco si metteva a parlare a ciascuno nella propria lingua.
“Sorella anima”, diceva, “non sei anche tu una fiamma come me?
Perché allora sei così malinconica?”“Sorella fiamma”, rispondeva l’anima, “ho spaccato legna e mi sono occupata della casa tutto il giorno.
Это кто такие концы пишет?!
An interesting psychological ghost story.
“L'anneau des lowenskold” est une fable tout à fait banale.
C’est une caprice déraisonable d’un noble qui sera payee tres cher par des petits gens.Un paysan vol l’anneau du tombeau du general.
La fiancée d’un des paysans victimes cache la bague maudite dans la maison du défunt général pour que les membres de la famille du général souffrent aussi.
Il sont très contents d’etre hors de danger mais le sort des petits gens continue à leur etre absolument indifferent.
Le denouement est très prévisible et l’intrigue n’offre aucune surprise.“L'anneau des lowenskold”est le premier tome très médiocre d'une trilogie très decevant.
No, this isn’t a tale of Middle Earth, this is The Lowenskold Ring (1925), a saga of an aristocratic family's uneasy relationship with some of its less well-to-do neighbors and of a haunting, a mysterious feud that takes place on the borderline between this world and the next.
In her short novel, Selma Lagerlof--the first Swede and the first woman to win the Nobel Prize for literature--presents a story with folklore overtones, fitting together eleven brief chapters as if with the precise, balanced composition of a miniature mosaic.
Before the novel is finished, however, we also see the hope to be found in empathy, in the young, and in brave outsiders.
Åh vad jag tyckte om den.(Åh vad fånigt det är att den här har lägre snittbetyg på Goodreads än all YA jag läser.)Så lätt berättat alltihop. Att språket är så smidigt och har åldrats närmast omärkbart. Tyngden i formuleringarna. Att jag känner mig så närvarande i gravkryptan, på tingsdagen, när ringen kommer tillbaka till Hedeby."Ivar Ivarsson har slagit sexor all, vilket är högsta kastet."Har nu till slut börjat läsa Charlotte Löwensköld, och funderar på om jag ska se pjäsen på Stadsteatern ändå. Men vill generellt läsa mer Selma Lagerlöf. (Kan inte för mitt liv minnas om jag läst Jerusalem?)
Löwensköldska ringen (1925) Translated V.S. Howard, 1931I know that in former days there were plenty of people who knew not the meaning of the word 'fear'.Löwensköldska ringen (1925). Translated as The General's Ring (Francesca Martin, 1928) and The Lövensköld Ring (Linda Schenck, 1991)
Having read this again, I am still charmed by its combination of warm sentimentalism and deep (and somewhat pessimistic) insight into human nature, particularly in its exposure of selfishness disguised as piety. A masterwork (but it needs a fresh translation).
I love a good book with a curse. I also love books with ghosts. Better yet when the two things are combined.This book almost has a folklore feel to it and I liked it. I really recommend it if you want to spend a good time.
So I read this book for my Swedish class and I thought the book was alright. Never really understood what the book actually was about, but it definitely was a bit spooky, so a good book for the autumn!
ძალიან საინტერესო წიგნია, მისტიკური, ოდნავ საშიში და რაც მთავარია - ჩამთრევი. დარწმუნებული ვარ ეს წიგნი ყვლას დააინტერესებს. ამ ნაწარმოებმა უკვე დაიკავა ღირსეული ადგილი, ჩემი საყვარელი ნაწარმოებების გვერდით.
So good, so smart, so thrilling and sad.
Il Cimitero sotto la neve di Caspar David Friedrich fa da copertina a questa novella del 1925, introducendone il tema. È infatti in un cimitero del Värmland svedese che la vicenda ha inizio, quando, in una notte d’agosto del 1741, dalla tomba del generale Bengt Löwensköld viene rubato l’anello donatogli dal re Carlo XII in persona. Il generale è una figura leggendaria, quanto e forse più del re stesso, tra la gente del posto, che l’ha soprannominato Forte Bengt. Si raccontano molte storie su qu
È infatti in un cimitero del Värmland svedese che la vicenda ha inizio, quando, in una notte d’agosto del 1741, dalla tomba del generale Bengt Löwensköld viene rubato l’anello donatogli dal re Carlo XII in persona.
È al patrimonio di leggende del nativo Värmland che Selma Lagerlöf, prima donna a ricevere il Nobel per la letteratura (1909), torna, quasi settantenne, per questa storia.
Al capitano Löwensköld, figlio del generale, è affidata quasi casualmente, con raffinata nonchalance, una riflessione profonda: "A tavola, oggi a pranzo, ci siamo messi a parlare dei tempi della guerra.
First story in a trilogy. Set in Sweden. Sets up a tale of theft, false accusations, and revenge that transcends generations. Author Selma Lagerlöf was first female winner of Nobel prize in literature.I actually read a single volume edition of the trilogy.These are more notes for the trilogy than an actual review, which it looks unlikely I will accomplish before returning the book to the library:Monica McGoldrick's  Ethnicity and Family Therapy  identifies some of the traits that are unique to o
(1928)A little more on the English translation volume I read:Publisher, Date: New York, Literary Guild, 1931.Contents: The generals ring tr.
В книге два коротких романа - "Перстень Левеншельдов" и "Шарлотта Левеншельд".
Ставлю 4* как микс 3* за первый роман и 5* за второй.
В первом мне не понравилась мистическая составляющая.Второй же роман понравился - и очень.
Шарлотта из семейства Левеншельдов помолвлена с юным пастор-адъюнктом Карлом-Артуром, тоже из Левеншельдов, но по другой ветви.
Дальше все закручивается по спирали - все оборачивается против того, чтобы они помирились и жили долго и счастливо...И, знаете, читала - и понимала, ну его к черту, этого мальчишку, как может уживаться в одном человеке эгоизм и религиозный экстаз?
А поскольку финал первого романа, про перстень, меня (барышню романтичную) слегка разочаровал, то я боялась, что и в "Шарлотте" случится что-то подобное.

Další kniha, tentokrát švédská klasika.
Kniha, kterou napsala první nositelka Nobelovy ceny za literaturu.
Zkoumá život několika postav, které na začátku příběhu nijak nesouvisí, ale pak se ukáže, kdo vlastně tahá za nitky.
Je to trilogie (dohromady 554 stran), obsahující knihy: Löwensköldův prsten, Charlotta Löwensköldová a Anna Svärdová, což je moje nejoblíbenější, protože líčí život Anny, prosté hauzírnice, která se vdala za kněze.
Na začátku příběhu se Anna jeví jako naivní mladé děvče, ale stane se z ní zkušená žena, která umí používat selský rozum a vyhrabe se z největšího bahna až na vrchol, tedy na ten vrchol, o kterém snila.
Ťažká kniha na recenzovanie.
Miestami postavy nudia, lebo si človek nevie predstaviť, že by aj naďalej nežili svojimi vopred určenými životmi.
No zrazu vybočia zo spoločenských konvencií 19.
storočia a urobia niečo nečakané.
A príbeh zrazu dostáva spád.
Miestami je teda kniha veľmi napínavá.
Keby nebolo jej najotravnejšieho hrdinu, dala by som knihe aj štyri hviezdy.
Mladý Karol Artúr, nádherný, citlivý, inteligentný, usilovný, s hlbokými hnedými očami, mi proste vadil.
A to ešte viac, keď sa dal na dráhu kňaza a rozhodol sa žiť chudobným životom, pričom sa dal viesť Bohom a povedal, že prvú ženu, ktorú na ceste stretne, popýta za ženu.
OK, I am now a confirmed Selma Lagerlof fan, and of the three I've read, this is my favourite.
I love a good vengeance story, and this one is unremitting, spanning thirty years, and tracing the consequences of the theft of General Lowenskold's ring from his cold, dead body as it lies in the crypt.
Full of narrative twists, and with a pervasive sense of ambiguity, one can see Lagerlof coming into her full power as an author in this novel.
Another reviewer describes it as Edgar Allen Poe meets the Lord of the Rings in the Swedish forest – a perfect summation.
Very good and interesting read. The first book I found rather boring and not worth the read. The second book "Charlotte Lowenskold" was an excellent assessment of what evil effects can come from gossip and rash judgment. The third book "Anna Svard" finishes the portrayal of the young and pious minister whose zeal is tempered by his total lack of an interior life. A good rendering of St. John's account that one who says he loves God and hates his neighbor being a liar.
Удовольствие от чтения "Шарлотты Лёвеншёльд" порядком портит эгоцентричный, импульсивный, глупый Карл-Артур. Писательница сама как будто понимает пороки своего героя, но при этом он остается человеком "с большим будущим", выдающимся проповедником. Да и сам мотив самопожертвования женщинами ради "выдающегося" мужчины порядком надоел.
Interesting to read a classic by a classic Swedish author. Typical saga form, clear eloquent language, super descriptions of landscape and how events may have happened in the past BUT I'm not sure about the point of the saga. A critique of society, a feminist proclamation? Could be all and everything I suppose. Albeit when one understands it was written when it was and by a woman.....
ძალიან საინტერესო წიგნია, მისტიკური, ოდნავ საშიში და რაც მთავარია - ჩამთრევი. დარწმუნებული ვარ ეს წიგნი ყველას დააინტერესებს. ამ ნაწარმოებმა უკვე დაიკავა ღირსეული ადგილი, ჩემი საყვარელი ნაწარმოებების გვერდით.
