https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41017496-in-the-teeth-of-the-evidence
This collection of short stories includes two Lord Peter Wimsey Stories (“In the Teeth of the Evidence,” and “Absolutely Elsewhere”), five Montague Egg stories (“A Shot at Goal,” “Dirt Cheap,” “Bitter Almonds,” “False Weight,” and “The Professor’s Manuscript”).
I also enjoyed, “The Inspiration of Mr Budd,” about a hairdresser spying a wanted man and, “The Leopard Lady,” about a sinister, ‘removal company.’ A good collection of stories, with a good mix of characters.
The illusion is cumbersome to set up and execute, but when properly done, very effective and hard to see through: the parlour trick, on the other hand, depends entirely on the speed of the magician's hand, and there is a greater chance of failure and embarrassment as the cards come slipping out of the sleeve.Which is why, I think, that there are very few "great" detective short stories compared to novels by the great authors.
The remaining tales are all stand-alone stories, with two or three humorous ones where a dire secret is promised only to end in a comic whimper.
A good mix of Sayers' short fiction, which is not limited to her Wimsey stories.
An excellent story, though, with humor and good supporting characters.
Then you act Job, and the spectators guess that Job is what you mean and applaud kindly." Cyril Markham is attending the birthday party of one of his late wife's friends.
All in all, a good mix of stories that show how versatile Sayers was as a writer.
This collection represents the last bit of Sayers' fiction that I wanted to read...just so I could say I'd re-read all of her fiction this year.
Here's a brief run-down of the stories:Wimsey stories (read in the previous month):"In the Teeth of the Evidence": Lord Peter goes to his dentist for a filling and finds himself involved in a mystery he can really sink his teeth into.
A night of tale-telling helps one man regain his self-respect."An Arrow O'er the House": What happens when a crime author's story is a bit too much like real life?"Scrawns": Where Susan learns that appearances can be deceiving."Nebuchadnezzer": Can a murderer stand to watch his deed acted out before him?
Dabei macht sich Lord Peter in gewohnter Manier an die Arbeit und mit seinem scharfen Verstand löst Rätsel, die die Polizei vor Probleme stellen.
Und so kann er die Menschen einschätzen, die seine Waren kaufen oder auch solche, die ein Verbrechen planen.
Zumal wenn es eine Autorin verfasst hat, deren Geschichten um Lord Peter wohlbekannt und gerne gelesen sind.
Allerdings sind Kurzgeschichten für mache Leser eine kleine Herausforderung, insbesondere, wenn diese doch lieber die ausgefeilteren und auch langsamer aufgebauten Romane lesen.
Dennoch sind einige der hier zusammengestellten Geschichten schnell auf dem Punkt, überraschend und manchmal geradezu fies.
A mixed bag of Sayers’ short stories - whodunnits and mysteries, a mixture of her novels, and of the more chilling works of Patricia Highsmith and Raoul Dahl.
In the driving seat of the burnt-out car were the remains of a body...An accident, said the police.
An accident, said the widow.
She had been warning her husband about the danger of the car for months.
Murder, said the famous detective Lord Peter Wimsey--and proceeded to track down the killer.
This is vintage Sayers, a collection of her finest crime and detection stories.’
In the Teeth of the Evidence is a collection of short stories by Dorothy L Sayers.
The cover features Lord Peter Wimsey's name prominently (and the edition I had has the same Elizabeth George introduction as the recent editions of the Wimsey novels), but in fact only two of the stories feature Wimsey.
Several more feature the travelling salesman Montague Egg (whose frequent references to the Salesman's Handbook set me musing about a Ferengi detective who frequently refers to the Laws of Acquisition), and about half of the stories are standalones, several quite creepy and Gothic in tone and including a couple which definitely verge on the supernatural.
Sbírka krátkých povídek, tentokrát hlavně s Montague Eggem, ale potkáte i lorda Petera a nebo i příběhy "bez detektiva". Hezká oddychovka.
Well executed short stories with a variety of twists.
Only two Peter stories and they were rather meh. More Montague Egg, who I still enjoy! You know what his stories kind of remind me of? Encyclopedia Brown. Not that readers are asked to solve the puzzle at the end, but it's the same kind of set up, where there isn't really detection most of the time, just a recitation of facts and our hero is able to brilliantly put them all together.I do not like Sayers' stand alones though. They are often unpleasant and almost creepy. Not nice people, not nice events, not satisfying conclusions.
I haven't read any Dorothy L. Sayers in a while, so this was a nice reminder of just what a polished author she is! In this collection of 17 stories, I loved 15 of them and the remaining two were average. just a little too melodramatic for my tastes. Although I am a huge fan of Wimsey, my absolute favourites this time round were the stories starring Travelling Salesman Egg. These were quick reads, enjoyable reads that unfolded very naturally. A reminder of how much is possible in the short story format.
Rating is for the book as a whole. In addition to a few good Wimsey and Montague Egg stories, it mops up a lot of non-series stories by Sayers, all of which are well-written, but most of which are just okay. This distracts from the last three great stories--two supernatural mysteries ("The Leopard Lady" and "The Cyprian Cat"), and one of the greatest short mysteries ever written, "Suspicion." The latter has a last line I remembered from reading it for the first time thirty years ago.
I loved this collection of short stories by Dorothy Sayers - more particularly the ones that are not Wimsey or Montague Egg. They are probably my favourite Sayers' stories.
More than Wimsey (apologies to all Wimsey fans), I loved Montague Egg, a 'commercial traveler' (salesman) who uses his salesman's guide to help him solve crimes, in 'A Shot at Goal,' 'Dirt Cheap,' "Bitter Almonds,' 'False Weight' and 'The Professor's Manuscript.' His quiet yet persistent assistance as murder occurs at yet another hotel where he is staying (one does wonder at the seemingly endless number of murders that England must bear) is engaging and unobtrusive.The additional stories - 'Nebuchadnezzar,' 'Blood Sacrifice,' 'The Leopard Lady,' and particularly 'Dilimma,' 'Suspicion' and 'The Inspiration of Mr. Budd' were exceptional.
I think my favourite of these, "The Inspiration of Mr Budd" started out as a loving character study on a perfectionist barber and his frustration with the half-assed but much better patronised premises across the street, and then when the plot actually arrives, the reader is presented with a finely sketched drama, in which Mr Budd is presented with the opportunity to turn in a wanted man, but finds himself afraid of the immediate consequences if he were to try and call for the authorities, and how he manages to leverage the situation anyway.
Other than that, I did like the character of Montague Egg, travelling salesman, and the way that the solution to each of the mysteries is framed with a quote from his constant companion, The Salesman Handsbook.
Another collection of short stories from the author of the Lord Peter Wimsey mysteries.
His Lordship makes a brief appearance at the beginning of the collection, in the first two stories.
The travelling salesman with a talent for detection, Montague Egg, takes over for a bit, then a further ten tales independent of either sleuth.
There may or may not be a twist in the tail, but in either case, the endings rather disappoint, which is a shame as the stories are quite involving and quirky.An interesting departure from the novels she is better known for, and which remain, for this reader anyway, her best work.
Only two Lord Peter Wimseys in this one, and then a few Montague Egg ones, and then an interesting little collection of miscellaneous stories.
Obviously my love for Lord Peter Wimsey is of a size and opacity which would blot out the sun, and I like Egg fine, but the stories outside of their canons are really something else.
There are a few that are almost Cortázar-esque, which is the highest compliment I can give a short story—suspenseful and relying a certain amount on the reader's acceptance of Strangeness in order to be understood.
Reading these stories has enriched my appreciation for Sayers as not only a master of characterization but also a skilled puzzle-maker.
Early Bird Flash Sale | This wasn't available when I was reading the series, I enjoyed getting to revisit Lord Peter and Montague Egg, but wish there had been more stories including either of them.
| A good collection, enjoyable, several had a light-hearted twist that was nice, but it was presented as a Lord Peter Wimsey collection with Monty Egg stories, so to have so few with either of them was disappointing.
It does include a "preview" of another collection, which allowed me to read the entire first short story in that book, so that was kind of a bonus Wimsey story.
Sir Peter always a delight. I just met Monty Egg. The other stories are also new to me, giving a different views of "quiet" Engish life.My review is above. Here you meet new Sayers characters. All very different from Harriet Vane and Sir Peter. Very good short stories for the reader, whose reading time comes in bits an snatches. My friends always know when I have been in Dorothy Land. My phrasing and cadences change for a while.
What a treat! I was expecting another collection of Lord Peter Wimsey stories but I got more than that. Some Montague Egg stories PLUS a bunch of stand-alone mysteries. Some of the individual stories are incredibly clever. "Nebuchadnezzar" has the same rich descriptions as the Wimsey stories and accomplished in a much smaller format. I very much enjoyed this collection of shorts. I highly recommend it.
A collection of short stories, some involving Lord Peter Wimsey, some another recurring detective character, and some stand alones. I like the ones that involved the other detective the best (I forget his name -- he's a traveling salesman) and the stand alone one that will haunt me was Blood Sacrifice. The short story aspect was appreciated given all of the upheaval going on during the weeks I was reading it.
This book of short stories is only for the diehard Dorothy Sayers fan. If you're a completist, then you have to read it. Otherwise, I'd suggest not. I haven't researched the stories but many seem to be from Ms. Sayers' very early career. There are two Lord Peter Wimsey stories. There are several featuring Montague Egg, and the rest were probably written for magazines. Not at all compelling.
This is an interesting collection of short stories by Dorothy L. Sayers. There's a few with Lord Peter Wimsey, a couple with Montague Egg and the rest are a lovely collection of various short stories. A couple of these I have read before, but most were new to me. Since the first copyright date is 1940, I assume these stories were written in the 1930s.
Readers coming into this expecting Lord Peter Wimsey will be disappointed, as there are only a few stories with him, but Montague Egg and the standalone stories are excellent. Egg is hilarious and yet a fresh spin on the detective story. I wish he had a full novel series, but he's still amusing. The short stories had my hair standing on end, because you had no idea whether it was serious or not.
This is a compilation of short stories from Dorothy Sayers. It looks like she had several germs of ideas that weren’t really enough for a complete novel. Some of the stories were very interesting and intriguing. Some were disturbing. Biggest disappointment (and why I only gave it 3 stars) was Lord Peter Wimsey wasn’t in a single story.
Not a bad set of stories but I prefer the Peter Wimsey collections. I think the characters are better drawn, or perhaps I just feel more familiar with them from the full length stories. A few of the Montague Egg stories were decent but often too short.
Some of the stories come across as Edgar Allen Poe meets Agatha Christie, others are just a quick, cosy mystery type read with Sayers' typical whimsical style (even though only the first story featured Lord Wimsey himself)
Funny at times disturbing but always clever and entertaining.
2.5 stars.
Didn't grab me quite as much as some of the others.
