https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403281.The_Last_Puritan
Writing novels depends on several specific skills not found in other genres—most obviously characterization and dialogue; and it is painfully evident that Santayana lacks these skills.
There are several false starts at what might have been more interesting directions for the plot, and the whole thing comes to an abrupt halt at the end with an anti-climatic deus ex machina.If I may be permitted to speculate for a moment, I think that—aside from all the tricks of the novelist's trade—the reason that such a great writer of philosophy ended up such a mediocre novelist has to do with tolerance of ambiguity.
Let everything bloom that has within it the seed of a flower." also, if we take this novel as philosophy / social critique, we get a sort of version of henry james' (whom santayana greatly admired*) "the speech and manners of american women" but for men: it is oliver alder's speech and manners that reflect the american man of the time, as he cares more about the football field than anything else (even Wall Street!).i kind of regret spending so long on this book when i could have been reading g.k. chesterton's book on chaucer ...
*"Two most creditable living americans John Sargent and Henry James both expatriates" (218).
Conrad Wright said this was the best study of the dying generation of American Unitarianism and he did not lie. What is striking is that affluence was so unhelpful to a young adult who felt he had been born into a life without the meaning his elders ascribed to it. Sort of a partner to Scott Fitzgerald's Beautiful and the Damned in that regard, and ultimately just as bleak. But for a late-in-life boomer wondering what went wrong, there's a lot of food for thought in the dour Professor Santayana.
Bizarrely, the second-place bestseller of 1935, behind Gone With The Wind.
If you prefer your dose of philosophy in a novel instead of a textbook, this is a very good one. Written in 1935 by the pragmatist/naturalist philosopher, George Santayana, and set in the late 19th century through World War I, it centers on the life, travels, education, friendships, and personal growth of the protagonist (Oliver). It's 602 pages in length, but at the end you don't feel like there was anything that should have been cut or reduced.
When I bought this book, I knew it was going to be great.
It is his experiences that inspired the writing of this book.
At that time when I was reading this books, I was very much disturbed and confused about certain aspects of my life.
A fact that plagued Oliver Alden throughout this novel.
He does not know how to place his father and mother on the one side and his friends on the other.
His father Peter Alden turns out to be a murderer who killed his own father while his mother an overprotective woman who cannot help but watch and judge the suitability of her son's friends.
I first encountered this book in the context of a course on Philosophy in Literature taught by Maurice Natanson. I found in Oliver, the protagonist, a deeply sympathetic character with familiar traits -- as familiar as myself.
will review later
Enjoyed this book for its scope if not plot.
This criticism is actually even addressed in the epilogue, where the "author" ruefully admits he is more interested in discourse than dialogue.
As far as plot, the book is relatively thin.
It pretends to be a biographical account of our titular character "The Last Puritan." To that end the book is free to present events in a string: this happens, then that happens, then this happens - - without restraint of motif or theme.
The ideas are interesting, and the prose, at times absolutely stunning.
Topics were ideas, not people - I miss that
1. I can't really believe anyone anywhere has ever really lived in the bizarrely Manichean way the main character and his family is supposed to have lived, trying to pretend to themselves that they don't have bodies or desires or the like, and this despite the fact that Eliot's biographies all say that's his whole situation and the stuff one picks up from Freud and the like.
2. I can't think of Santayana's name without also mentally chanting "Squashed Banana" like the baboon-priest from the Lion King.
But it's not bad.
The characters were interesting, to a point, but I found the book way too wordy and preachy overall.
Some of the sections of the novel that I enjoyed the most were the conversations which were, fortunately, not too terribly impeded by the trappings of the story's structure with its quotidian details of everyday life.The protagonist, Oliver, is the masterful character whose individual personality is drawn with all of its perplexity, sensitiveness, and youthful seriousness.
The novel presents a good story in addition to the ideas that are presented.
One may enjoy it for its story but the primary appeal for this reader is the novel of ideas in the robust realization that Santayana brought to his creation of a lifetime.
I read this for an american philosophy class at hampshire, either my first or second semester.
that's when I decided I didn't like philosophy after all.
I have no patience with pages and pages to define consciousness and in the end I don't care!
in fact, looking at the list I am entering into goodreads I thought, there has to be some mistake, there's no way I read this book twice.
then I remembered that I did, because I was considering getting rid of it, couldn't remember it, and thought I'd reread it to see if it was any good.
Finally finished this tome...recommended by some queen in The Advocate...I could slap him/her! Old fashioned, out of date style, boring in most places, not gay at all!
Applying critical lenses to this book would be one of the few ways of redeeming the time I spent actually reading the thing, but I wouldn't go so far as to say that it's BAD...
Recensione completa qui:http://ultimavisione.wordpress.com/20...
