https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15729539-nos4a2
If you like your Christmas trees decorated with sparkling abominations, your Santa more by way of an oversized, but underfed mortician, and your Santa’s special elf a rapist psycho-killer, then this is the book you will want to find frightening off the other packages under your tree next Christmas.Joseph Hillstrom King, under nom de scare Joe Hill, is a man who not only would be King, he already is one.
One might be forgiven at times for thinking that he might be giving new meaning to the term “cold calls” as he has his maybe-dead minions manning (would that be childing?) the phones to harass our hero.“Everyone lives in two worlds,” Maggie said, speaking in an absent-minded way while she studied her letters.
“Already, though, she understood the difference between being a child and being an adult. The difference is when someone says he can keep the bad things away, a child believes him.”  Charles Talent Manx with his silver hammer.Some people are born with bad wiring. Some people get caught in a whirlpool of one tragic circumstance after another that has a detrimental effect on their sanity. Some people are too fragile; some are too hard, and some accumulate so much baggage that their soul gets lost
Manx, with the help of a loathsome companion named Bing who is a very, very dangerous dingaling, is going around the country “liberating” abused children from parents and taking these kids back to Christmasland.
For the sake of her sanity, she tries to forget things like the Shorter Way Bridge, Rolls Royces with vanity license plates, a skeletal gray man with red eyes, and children singing demented Christmas carols.
The American edition is on the left, and the British edition is on the right.Hill wrote a graphic novel called Wraith that gives his readers more background on Charlie Manx.
Joe Hill tells another wonderful story that is scary, disturbing, beautiful, sad, and surprisingly touching.Read it all the way to the end. All the way.
Well, that has to be a personal record on the fastest time I've finished a 700 page novel. Full review to come!--------Pleased to announce that this is our #scaredsuspensebookclub pick for December! If you’re wanting to read this before the show airs in 2019, come join us. ♥ The discussions will be broken up as follows:12/14: Prologue-Search Engine 12/28: Remainder of NovelPlease let me know if you’d like to be added to the Instagram reading group by leaving your handle in the comments. 🎄📚
Well, that has to be a personal record on the fastest time I've finished a 700 page novel. Full review to come!--------Pleased to announce that this is our #scaredsuspensebookclub pick for December! If you’re wanting to read this before the show airs in 2019, come join us. ♥️ The discussions will be broken up as follows:12/14: Prologue-Search Engine 12/28: Remainder of NovelPlease let me know if you’d like to be added to the Instagram reading group by leaving your handle in the comments. 🎄📚
Don'tcha think?I put off reading NOS4A2 for awhile.
Why haven't read NOS4A2??
Randee , One of the easiest people to get along with- Lisa UK, ....and one of the hardest people to get along with Mr. Dan 2.0Massachusetts 1986: With the help of her trusty bike and a bridge called The Shorter Way- 12 year old Victoria McQueen finds lost things- keys, lost pets, jewelry...and one unfortunate day...she finds kidnapper Charles Manx....a day that will change her life in ways she could have never imagined.Somehow I went into reading NOS4A2 having noooooooooooo idea what it was about.
I liked Horns, I liked Heart shaped box and I do believe those two books were Joe Hill getting "warmed up" and NOS4A2 is him hitting his stride.
Christmas Carols always seem to be playing and if you are a good boy or girl you will be "rewarded" with a visit to Christmasland.One fateful day Vic finds Manx and of course, all hell breaks loose.
Vic is not stranger to inpatient psychiatric hospitalizations, I mean she is speaking to missing children who live in Christmasland.
I liked that Maggie came back to help as did Lou. This is a BIG book.
I think the books hardest to get into are the horror ones because it's really a thin line between something being scary and it becoming funny and not believable so I really have to give credit to Hill because even though the book was long he kept me engaged the whole time and even though the concept easily could've turned ridiculous he managed to keep it creepy, like every time Charles Manx was doing something I can't even explain the anxiety and anger I felt especially when the book was at its climax in the end.
I really enjoyed the supernatural vibe he struck where it felt like something that could exist in real life also because it isn't so ridiculous that some people may have a hidden gift like that.
People think I'm strange because I don't like Christmas. Well, this book did not cure me of this dislike in the slightest, nossir. Read it, and you'll understand. "You can’t let facts get in the way of the truth." I've also never been a fan of Christmas music. There's something just *off* in that fake strained cheerfulness that emanates from it. After this book, I dislike it even more because the annoying in it has been joined by the sinister undertones.Also, the dislike *may* have something to
After this book, I dislike it even more because the annoying in it has been joined by the sinister undertones.Also, the dislike *may* have something to do with working in a department store years ago, cleaning up before closing during the holidays¹ while listening to the never-ending 'Jingle Bells Rock' and 'Rudolf' and 'Santa Claus is Coming to Town' relentlessly playing overhead over and over again while your tired overworked brain is slowly turning to mush.¹ Have you *seen* the mess that hordes of Christmas bargain-hunters leave in the stores???
Her way to do so was a bit unconventional: she would speed on her Raleigh bike over a covered bridge - the one that had collapsed a while ago but remained standing in her mind - right to the place where the lost thing was.
Fortunately, that's the only complaint I have about this awesome book.The lead, Victoria McQueen, is a broken woman whose life is thrown into further chaos when Charles Manx thrusts himself back into it.
She rises to the occasion and does what any mother would do when her son is kidnapped: kick ass and take names!Charles Manx, the villain, is like an even creepier version of Willy Wonka, abducting Children and taking them to another world, Christmasland, where it's Christmas every day and the children become feral little monsters.
Heck, Derry is mentioned so I think it's safe to assume Hill's stories are part of the King-verse and thus the Dark Tower.This was my first Joe Hill book and it won't be the last.
One of my top favorite books of all time (which should be obvious since I have now read the book twice and have listened to the audiobook once, narrated masterfully by Kate Mulgrew, as well).A Creepy, Disturbing Thrill Ride, with a flawed, yet lovable heroine, NOS4A2 is Joe Hill at his best.
When Vic was young, she encountered the likes of one Charles Talent Manx and his ride was a Wraith.
His son Wayne and Vic. Victoria has never really been good at anything except for finding things.
If this doesn’t convince you guys to listen to one of the books she narrated, I don’t know what will.
This is a book about the evil Charlie Manx who takes boys and girls to Christmasland to live forever and ever and ever.......and Christmasland is not a place you want to be with your soul sucked dry.
↑ That was Bing, one of Manx henchmen he uses over the years to take care of the kids parents.
:-)There is a little girl in the book named Victoria (Vic) McQueen and she is the only one that ever managed to not be killed as a child by Manx.
Until.......Lou and Vic end up having a kid together and named him Wayne.
This is an accurate surface description, but doesn't even come close to describing what this book is really about: the truest kind of love, which can come from even the most flawed human beings.Yes, this is a horror novel, no question, and it's one of the best I've ever read.
It makes for a very satisfying read and makes her that much more sympathetic.And so, while my first impression was simply that this was a great, creepy book, the final third proves that this is truly a beautiful work of literature, with much to say about the human condition, particularly the strange, confusing, and often conflicted love that children and their parents have for each other.
I was lucky enough to have a group of ladies to read it with me.I believe that NOS4A2 will be Joe THE FUCKING MAN Hill’s standout book.
While the Brat is our main protagonist, our heroine, I believe there were two characters that I loved more: Maggie Leigh and Lou Carmody.
I don’t want to say much about her in hopes that you’ll read the book and love her for all the same unspoken reasons I did.
The villains are NOT vampires, so stop thinking you don’t want to read this book because it’s a vampire book and wahnnn wahhhnnn wahhhhn.
It’s a great book, truly.
Maggie also warns Vic about Charlie Manx, another person with special talents who kidnaps children and takes them to a place called Christmasland in his 1938 Rolls Royce Wraith with plates that read NOS4A2.
Years later, Vic’s adult life has been a steady descent into what seems like madness, but she’s trying to finally repair her relationship with her son when Charlie returns.
With the point that the more you use the gift, the bigger the toll like Maggie’s increasing stammer, you’d think Vic’s head would have exploded well before the end of the book.I also thought Hill overdid how much physical abuse Vic takes.
Review?
Wow..Of course this book deserves a review.
It deserves one of the highest order.
But what can I write that will do Joe Hill and his wonderful book any justice?I mean, really.
My ability to rave on this awesome book is dwarfed by the sheer wordpower of Joe Hill.
So, here we go.This was cool.Uhhhh...yeah.
Cool.
I liked it.A lot.See what I mean?
The first is a waste of everyone's time, and the second is a betrayal.So...read the book.
You might expect that it would....but it's better for it all the same.Okay, Joe. When is your next book coming out?["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Bing doesn't have any special abilities other then being uber creepy.....seriously, he's the true stuff of nightmares.One day Charlie Manx crosses Victoria McQueen and that is where the fun begins.....fasten your seat belts, keep hands inside the ride at all times, and for goodness sake don't get out of the car until the ride has come to a complete stop.I grew up in the town that has the BEST amusement park in the U.S. and most likely the world.
The best book I have ever read.
I will start by saying that I no longer consider it the best I've read, although it was the best book I had read at that point in my life (Summer 2013).
I doubt many people who read this book will believe it's anywhere near a stroke of genius, but I did and do.
NOS4A2 remains one of the best books I've read, and I doubt that will ever change.
In summation: This is still a shit review for an amazing book.
I promise to do better after my reread.
Is it one of those US and UK edition thing going on?-----------Out of all my goodreads friends, I'm part of the very few who didn't rate this more than 3 stars.
The premise wasn't given justice because the novel focused on so much things that I felt that it drifted from its original purpose/goal.
I didn't like Vic, Wayne, Manx, or any other character in this novel.
(view spoiler)[ The kid becoming evil inside in the end because of the things that happened in the novel?
(hide spoiler)] I'm not going to mention the similar novels anymore because that might spoil you.
Joe Hill wrote a few books and then just went all-in with a longer, epic story that spans decades, introduces new characters, and changes plot several times.
That was really the only time the book kind of lulled.
It was short, and business picked up again soon, so it's fine.
Charles Manx was a very interesting villain, almost like an anti-hero at times.
He wasn't an all-powerful, unstoppable superhero bad guy type.
I like that he isn't trying to fit the same mold his dad works in, and he's found his own literary voice if you ask me.
My only experience with Kate Mulgrew, prior to listening to this audio book, was in her role as Captain Janeway from Star Trek: Voyager.
Needless to say, I got over it, and I became a big fan of Star Trek's first female captain.I haven't seen or heard from Kate Mulgrew since the Voyager TV series ended.
). But I truly believe that Kate's voice as Charlie Manx, (and Maggie Lee, and Bing), adds a level of depth to this book, previously not reached.
Between Joe Hill's amazing writing and Ms. Mulgrew's kick-ass voice, I feel that Maggie is the most realistic and sad character in this story.
Although there might be a few minor similarities, this is more of a creature feature.So if this isn’t a vampire tale, then what’s it all about?In a broad sense, I think it’s about the magic of childhood, and how part of growing up involves losing your ability to view the world with that same childlike wonder.
As our resident scrabble expert, Maggie, explains to Vic, “Everyone lives in two worlds…There’s the real world, with all its annoying facts and rules.
This will probably read like a love letter to dear ole’ dad, for the rest of you, but I digress.Now, having completed our list, remember boys and girls, Santa’s always watching, so play nice.
He used his car to suck the life out of children.
Had I known at the time how great this book is, I'd have wrestled her to the ground for it.Charlie Manx is NOT a vampire in the traditional sense.
And then I grew up.Vic grows up and is tormented by thoughts of Manx and his village of lost children.
Can abducting children be far behind?Do whatever you must to get your hands on this book...even if it means knocking your friends to the ground.
at 700 pages this book has everything. a bit of Cujo , a bit of Christine, and old vampire, (that's just to name a few) looks like Joe reshuffled all of Steve's stories added a bit of his own spin and created his own monster. Certainly compelling reading, but you feel like you've read most of it previously. Still however worth your time
5 stars! ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐I finished right before the new year! Thank you to all my friends on here that did a BR with me on NOS4A2. The BR turned out to be such a fun time experiencing this book with you all!Where do I even start with this review?! What a crazy and awesome book! I absolutely loved it and will read more Joe Hill books in the future. He really impressed me with his ability for storytelling and horror. Well done!I loved the supernatural aspect of this book along with all the horrid and evil c
The BR turned out to be such a fun time experiencing this book with you all!Where do I even start with this review?!
I absolutely loved it and will read more Joe Hill books in the future.
Well done!I loved the supernatural aspect of this book along with all the horrid and evil characters.
Hill does such a great job on getting you to hate them along with creeping you out with their actions and conversations.
I hate creepy, evil kids and Hill did such a great job in that aspect.The action and suspense was fantastic and the end of the book was excellent.
The most deliciously evil Christmas story every penned!!!I didn't think it was possible but, it happened, I enjoyed it EVEN MORE this time round.I think the first time, it was so intense, that I was just racing through the pages to see what was going to happen.
This time however, I could sit back and enjoy the finer details, as I knew how it was going to end up.
Even knowing the ending going in, it's an absolutely joyous story and I think I just may make it a tradition to read it every year.
The loving, yet apprehensive mother of Bruce Wayne Carmody, Vic's strength (both mental and physical) are pushed to the limits numerous times during the story, all on account of Manx.
Unfortunately, her little Wayne feels the pull of Christmasland and we watch his soul go on one hell of a dangerous ride!Then we have our minor characters, who were so well drawn and complete - my favorites, Maggie & Lou, were so important to this story and in my opinion, two of the most likable people in the action.
From there this book takes off into an epic tale involving time travel, a beautiful Rolls Royce Wraith from 1938, a horrible man called Charlie Manx and...Christmas!
I don't know.)All in all, I really enjoyed this book.
It's Mr. Hill's longest work to date and I liked having that additional time to sink my teeth into this story.
The only complaint I have about this book was that I wanted to know more about Christmasland.
I would love an entire book about Christmasland and the children that live there.(I hope Mr. Hill is paying attention!) I recommend this story to any fans of Joe Hill's previous works, and to fans of his father.
(view spoiler)[Mental breakdown/drug/alcohol problem, her relationship with Lou & the unwed mother thing, all of it is an aside that the reader never gets to see.
(hide spoiler)] She just felt so flat to me, which is pretty sad for this book since she’s one of the main characters.
I do not need you to referee.”“There is no reason for you to take out your failures on the handsome interior of my car.”The Gasmask Man was genuinely icky & horrifying, I was terribly sad at the all-around rough treatment Maggie got (although it makes me happy to just think of the line, “He would think God was a dyke librarian, and he would know the fear of her”), and now I hate Christmas even more than I did before.
Vic crosses the Shorter Way Bridge and happens upon Charles Manx - who's on his way to Christmasland with a child.
Vic tries to rescue the kid and fails, but she manages to escape from Manx...and is instrumental in putting him in prison.
Manx is dead after all.) So Vic herself becomes a suspect in Wayne's abduction and has to elude the FBI while trying to rescue her son.
The story has lots of creepy scenes including Bing torturing and killing his victims; Manx taking an increasingly delusional/deteriorating Wayne on the long drive to Christmasland; mysterious phone calls from dead children; and more.
Ok so I am so glad I gave Joe Hill another chance. For some reason I didn't like his earlier books. Guess what? I'm going to reread them just because I liked this book so danged much. The boy has definately came into his own.Creepy book that I couldn't put down. Vic was the perfect heroine. She has her flaws but I think that made her even stronger. Charles Manx creeped me out..Perfect, perfect, perfect!!
