https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166309.Fireflies
بگذار عشقِ من چون آفتاب، تو را احاطه کند / و با این حال آزادیِ روشنی را به تو بدهد------------------
My mom gave this book to my dad when they got married. They're not married anymore, but somehow these jewel-like little poems capture that feeling of being in love and hopeful and all the bright-eyed wonder towards the world that goes along with it.
I am not a poetry kind of person.. but this one was separated into small little bites, so each sentence was powerful. Very interesting and some very pretty bits. A couple of my favorites:"The child ever dwells in the mystery of ageless time, unobstructed by the dust of history.""A light laughter in the steps of creation carries it swiftly across time.""To justify their own spilling of ink they spell the day as night." I may be misinterpreting something.. but at the very least I like the way the words flowed/sounded together.
Real gems of short poems.Must read for all.
I will carry this book with me wherever I go.
Sometimes I liked and Sometimes I couldn't get the essence of Tagore's wordings, and even Sometimes I fully got that what he wanted to convey, but I couldn't believe myself that it is so. Nature speaks in this collection. Trees, Hills, Sea, Mountains show their glory to Tagore.
استمتعت بقراءتها عدة مرات وقمت بترجمتها وهي جاهزة للنشر في كتاب I have enjoyed reading Fireflies several times and translated it into Arabic... it is ready to be published in a book as soon as it is possible.
I really, really love this terrific collection. Is there anything better than poetry which communicates such profound truth in so few words?
This collection has every verse translating to a very deep meaning,it makes you ponder over life. The metaphors and references made are brilliant. An easy read for the way it is compiled.
I just love the poems in this book...
I'm not typically into poetry, but I love this book of extremely short but deep poems; some of which changed my life.
"Fireflies had their origin in China and Japan where thoughts were very often claimed from me in my handwriting on fans and pieces of silk." Quote Tagore
This is my all time favorite book of poems. I read them often.
کم کم نظرمو به خودش جلب کرد واقعا - البته باید انگلیسیش هم کنار دستتون باشه وگرنه یه جاهایی اون فهم و لذتی که باید دست نمی ده بهتون.
در ضمن این تنها بخشی از کل مجموعهی شبتابها است - گزیده نمی شه اسمشو گذاشت، نویسنده تا یه جا ترجمه کرده بعد ولش کرده.
حتی نصف کتاب اصلی هم نیست.
اشعار انگلیسی رو می تونید تو اینترنت پیدا کنید.
من همزمان اونارم خوندم و اونایی که ترجمه نشده بود رو هم خوندم.
چیزای جالب درش کم نبودنحوصله ی حرف زدن ندارم اما مفاهیمی مثل بازی، خنده و ...
در ضمن این تنها بخشی از کل مجموعه‌ی شب‌تاب‌ها است - گزیده نمی شه اسمشو گذاشت، نویسنده تا یه جا ترجمه کرده بعد ولش کرده.
اشعار انگلیسی رو می تونید تو اینترنت پیدا کنید.
من همزمان اونارم خوندم و اونایی که ترجمه نشده بود رو هم خوندم.
باشن اما تاگور برعکس با تکیه بر بازی قصدش سرخوشی و ...
است.
پس مواظب باشید که از منظر خود تاگور اشعار همه سرخوشانه هستند.
هر چند من که دیدگاه ناامیدانه رو برای تفسیر اشعار بیشتر دوست دارمپ.
ن. الان دیدم مسیحا برزگر همه ی مجموعه رو ظاهرا ترجمه کرده اونم دو زبانه
These beautiful pieces have been compiled into a breath-taking anthology.
I have started reading a few a night, and contemplating their deeper meanings to learn more about myself and the world around me.
These are wonderful little proverbs that I plan to use in my classroom as a teacher to help my students think critically, as well as to learn to interpret on their own.If you are a lover of poetry and deep thinking, read this.
Trust me, just read it.
These beautiful little "fireflies" were lovely. As some confused me I wished that I could have read them in the language that they were written in. That is always the challenge with translated works.
Rabindranath Tagore has always been master of imagination. Your intellect gets new dimensions to believe and imagine when you finish his poetry.
some good gems inside, although it needs an editor.. the English of the author can be awkward at times, for example:I have listened to catch the music of thy play, and I am glad.
