https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/952494.Land_of_Unreason
Not only do authors deCamp and Pratt usher us into Fairyland, and show us the court of Oberon and Titania, but we are also shown all manner of elves, sprites, nymphs, fairies, ogres, kobolds and the like; even a leprechaun and a unicorn are thrown into the mix.This journey into the fantastic begins when Fred Barber--an American vice-consul in Spain who has been injured during World War II and who is convalescing on the Yorkshire moors--impulsively drinks the milk that his hostess has superstitiously left for the fairies on St. John's Eve. He is kidnapped by a fairy named Sneckett and brought to Oberon's palace, where he is given the task of going to the Kobold Hills and preventing the kobolds from making metallic swords (a substance that no fairy can touch).
Despite the "fantasy fairyland" setting, the wry, lightly humorous tone, the more-than-occasional vocabulary word, and meticulously ornate dialog, this was a blindingly fast read that hides literacy and depth.
It reads like fairytale, moving from weird encounter to the next, all quickly enough that any particular situation never overstays its welcome.The dream logic to the story (especially at the mind-twisting ending) rings true to fairytale logic, where in opposition to our world, the rules of the world shift and wobble while strict rules compel the conduct of the inhabitants.
It blends The Once and Future King with Lewis Carroll.After a bunch of modern genre fiction--series fiction--this is a treat just in the ornateness of the language, as handled by two masters of writing.
Another fun lighthearted fantasy from L. Sprague de Camp. Not my all time favorite, but I stumbled across an autographed paperback at a used book store, not even marked as autographed. One of the prizes of my collection.
Fred Barber drinks the milk left for the fairies and finds himself an ambassador for the court of Oberon and Titania. More a series of adventures than a single thread, I really enjoyed this due to the eloquent style and otherworldly feel of Fairyland.
You'll want to review your 12th Century history to follow the plot, but a good read.
Top class fantasy in which Fred Barber,an an American diplomat recuperating in England during World War II, drinks a bowl of milk intended for the fairies and unwittingly gives them his whisky instead; kidnapped Barber finds himself in the Land of the Faerie.Faeryland is in trouble and his diplomatic skills are employed by King Oberon.
He undertakes a quest in the service of Oberon, the fairy king and finds his rational and logical mind beset by the illogic of his enemies.Whimsy is often rather dull because it relies a lot on unconscious ramblings but i suspect Pratt as the main author here and he does it with aplomb.
Ok. Recommended only for genre historians
I read this as an audiobook. I think maybe it requires more attention.
