https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34890015-factfulness
But I’ve continued to use “developed” and “developing” in public (and on this blog) because there wasn’t a more accurate, easily understandable alternative—until now.I recently read Hans’ new book Factfulness: Ten Reasons We're Wrong About the World—and Why Things Are Better Than You Think.
Life is significantly better for those on level 2 than level 1, but it’s hard to see that from level 4 unless you know to look for it.The four levels are just one of many insights in Factfulness that will help you better understand the world.
In all low income countries across the world today, how many girls finish primary school?A: 20 percentB: 40 percentC: 60 percent
He then proceeds to use Wikipedia as a source ten times.The book's argument is far stronger when it focuses on things being BETTER rather than good.
And, as the Roslings conclude, things are getting better by most measurable standards across the globe.I do also think something huge is missing from this book and it is an integral part of the misconception and misrepresentation of the state of the world.
It seems like Rosling was a good, kind person.
Also, the author is making a big deal out of the fact that most world's population seems to be living in the middle class...
This book is mostly like an extended TED Talk.
Ipso facto I mostly hated this book.Rosling's central thesis is that in most measures of human development the World is much better than we'd think.
Rosling spends a lot of time talking about the important people (e.g., bankers, Davos, bankers at Davos, TED talks) that he's presented this findings too.
The central problem with his optimistic World view is that it ignores all the declining global environmental indicators.
It is an impossibility that most people in the World can reach Rosling's Stage 3, let alone Stage 4, with current technologies.
Rosling writes about the most important things in the world and does so in an accessible and entertaining style.
He busts myths using facts.
This is what non-fiction is supposed to be.
Much of what "everybody knows" and that we read in the news every day is wrong, because hardly anyone bothers to do reality-checking.
This is a recurring problem in non-fiction books, including ones about science.
So, when finally someone is exposing ignorance, clarifying truth, and exploring logical implications, I am going to give him 5 stars.
Gapminder and this book are great gifts to the world.
Rosling will be missed.
Viva facts!
The author explains why and how our fear instinct is invoked and urges us to understand the difference between what’s frightening and what’s dangerous as it leads us to shift our attention from something that’s risky to something that’s mildly harmful.This can cause people to make rash decisions by calling on our urgency instinct.
Also, the most important thing is to understand what the numbers explain about the real world.The generalization instinct leads us to group together things which are unrelated and on a large scale, it forms a stereotype that can cause people to draw wrong conclusions about a certain entity.
For my part, one of the most striking things about the book is how uncontroversial its assertions are...and how simple the statistical facts of the world can be rendered.
Zero-sum competition will lay waste to the public utility that is a shared fact-based world.
There is one very controversial assertion in this book that I would like to reflect on.
At several points, the author asserts that our current methods of pursuing progress are working.
As tribalism increases, our modern scientific tools for tackling climate change, political violence, disaster relief, and the fragility of the global economy deteriorate.
Eventually I realized my foolishness and this week I've been reading "Factfulness" while at the same time listening to Rosling's memoir on audio.We need to learn to hold two thoughts in our head at the same time: the world has gotten a lot better, and some things are still really bad.
At the start of the book is a quiz with 13 questions, on which most people across the world score worse than if they had guessed at random.
As an example, question 2: where do the majority of people live?
Rosling identifies four categories depending on income.
The world is better than it's ever been.
The facts are right there, people.(To quote Tamora Pierce (in a review for a nonfiction book (shh)): "You can smack some people in the face with a haddock and they’ll still call it a mouse if a mouse is what they want to see.")I'm also very interested in the environment and consumer trends and could connect this book a lot to one of my classes, in which we learn about such things, so it was interesting to get a perspective on the same topics we were studying that was a lot more in-depth and a lot more interesting than my textbook.(The Gapminder website is pretty cool too.)One of my favorite concepts from Factfulness was "possibilist"."People often call me an optimist, because I show them the enormous progress they didn't know about.
The only thing that made this drastic change in his personal life bearable was the book.
He didn't live long enough to read the final draft, to get the book published, to see it become a massive success or to bliss over people reading it generations after generations.
He was a visionary who saw the world different from us; and this is a chronicle of the success stories, experiences as well the failures that he shared with the world.STRONGLY RECOMMENDED for everyone who exists.If you want to understand the world or improve your rational thinking, this could be one of the books to start with.
In the last decades of his life Hans Rosling (1948 – 2017) made a world-wide career lecturing to large corporations, Wall Street bankers, hedge fund managers and gatherings of Nobel laureates and heads of states such as in Davos, about the statistics of the world. Roslings son invented a software so that you could present statistics with moving, shrinking and growing bubbles in different colors, which made an otherwise boring subject highly entertaining. The program could even be sold to Google.
Yes, that is a small part of the answer, but just a very small part and it does not explain why people leave their countries in the first place when there is no war.In the middle of the book Rosling has two honest pages about an African woman who talked to him after one of his lectures.
On the very next page, as on all the others, he keeps going on as before.The over 1000-year-old nordic Edda says “One thing I know that never dies – the judgment over a dead man”.Hans Rosling was born in a working class family.
This is honestly one of the most eye-opening, opinion changing books I have ever read.
Factfulness gives real, data-based information about how we use information and how to do that better.
It is frank and it is real and I have never felt so empowered in my life.
The tips and explanations in here are so useable and so relatable and so simple, I can start using them right now and I feel like I’ll have need to use them forever.
Seriously, this feels right now like a must read book.
However, my own results showed 10 / 13, and when I shared the quiz with three friends, their scores were between 8 & 10 of 13 correct.
2) abuse of averages - the author notes the danger of using averages to describe populations without understanding the underlying distributions, then proceeds to barrage the reader with averages while offering little sense of the underlying distributions, and so failing to address key underlying questions (is the progress indicated the result of economic growth?
In summary, if you score poorly on the quiz and could use a summary glance at key development statistics and how they have evolved in recent decades, this can be a useful primer.
Why I am right and everyone is wrong. I gave a bunch of really smart people a quiz and they all got it wrong --how could they be so dumb? The book proceeds in this way. The point is taken--things are way better than they seem. I get it. I believe his facts (though I dispute some of his rosy conclusions about the world), but I could not get over his condescending cockiness.
Some day all third-world middle-class folk (by local third-world standards) will always have clean water on tap, garbage pickup and recycling, consistently supplied twenty-four hour power for refrigerated foods and medical serums, and top world-quality health care like all of the upper classes all over the world.I answered the author's questions in the beginning of the book about factual world knowledge all correctly, so I guess I understand and have retained what I have learned from studying past UN surveys correctly similar to the author, and perhaps more knowledgeably than most.
Para isso muito tem contribuído a voragem a que todos vamos sendo submetidos por meios de avaliação que não levam em conta quem somos, mas apenas o que debitamos em termos de resultados numa folha de Excel.
Com isto não quero dizer que o trabalho de Hans seja mau ou irrelevante, ele é imensamente relevante e o livro vale a leitura para todos, mas deve ser lido com muito espírito crítico.O resto da análise pode ser lida no VI em:https://virtual-illusion.blogspot.com...
From BBC Radio 4 - Book of the week:Why are people convinced that the world is more frightening than it really is?
And the results were always the same."Everyone seems to get the world not only devastatingly wrong, but systematically wrong.
They are worse than the results I would get if the people answering my questions had no knowledge at all."Identifying key evolutionary instincts that prevent us from seeing the world as it really is, Rosling asks us to fundamentally shift our view of the world - but we have an engaging and entertaining guide on our journey.Abridged by Anna MagnussonRead by Adrian RawlinsProducer Eilidh McCreadie.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b09x...
Plan: Successful.When my students ask me this question about my favorite color (or some other overly simplistic query), and I offer a similar response to the above, they look at me annoyed and say, “Jeez, why do you have to be so extra?”I look at them with a raised eyebrow and reply, “Why do you have to be so simple?”#If there’s any one theme to Factfulness, it’s this: Neither people, nor the world, are simple.
If safety is our goal, wouldn’t it make way more sense to ban immigrants from countries with poor driving records?The Size Instinct: This is the simplistic instinct to think we understand numbers better than we do.
TL;DR People as not as rich, and not as poor as we expect them to be. We can blame media and education for this, but we can't change it.

حکومتهای استبدادی و جنگها زیاد بودند و کشتار وحشیانه تعداد زیادی از مردم را به فلاکت می‌انداخت؛ اکثریت جامعه بی‌سواد بودند و هرگونه خرافات را باور می‌کردند؛ مردم بدون برق و اینترنت چه می‌کردند؛ سرما را چطور تحمل می‌کردیم؛ از کودکانی که به دنیا می‌آمدند چه تعدادی زنده می‌ماندند و چه بسیار مادرانی که سر زایمان جان خود را از دست می‌دادند.ممکن است هدف اصلی هانس رزلینگ، ایجاد دیدگاه مثبت در مخاطب نسبت به آینده‌ی جهان و در پی‌اش آرامش ذهنی و انگیزه‌های مثبت برای تلاش در ساخت آینده‌ای بهتر باشد ولی از این که بگذریم، یکی از مهمترین دستاوردهایش، مصداقهای بسیار زیبا و اثرگذار در تفکر نقادانه است.
A clever book that has plenty of good news in explaining 10 reasons why the vast majority of us are wrong in thinking the worst. I recommend this to those that prefer their reading less than dry. Hans Rosling's style is very folksy, not for me personally, but I understand why others may enjoy this style of presentation.
This does not mean, the author makes clear, that there are not serious issues in terms of politics, racism, and climate change.
Al Gore asked me to help him and use Gapminder’s bubble graphs to show a worst-case future impact of a continued increase in CO2 emissions.But I couldn’t agree to what he had asked.
Picking only the worst-case scenario and— worse— continuing the line beyond the scientifically based predictions would fall far outside Gapminder’s mission to help people understand the basic facts.
But those who care about climate change should stop scaring people with unlikely scenarios.======I know I resent it when I see someone is trying to manipulate me through fear.
And the results were always the same."Everyone seems to get the world not only devastatingly wrong, but systematically wrong.
They are worse than the results I would get if the people answering my questions had no knowledge at all."Identifying key evolutionary instincts that prevent us from seeing the world as it really is, Rosling asks us to fundamentally shift our view of the world - but we have an engaging and entertaining guide on our journey.Just another way of framing Pinker's The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined, and I didn't buy into that either.
The problem is that we don't recognize these amazing achievements.We need to keep data oriented, cool-headed analytical mind most of the time.
Here are the 5 most important global issues we should be aware of and worried about (as suggested by author).* Global pandemic* Financial collapse (this is one seems inevitable.
Question is when though?)* World war (I want to believe this one is not an issue so baddly!) * Climate change  (this one is real!) * Extreme poverty  (seems like education is the key in the long term.) ------ * Unknown threats (this one is always on the table!)
I have mixed feelings about this book.
"Everything you do and are now is wrong and here's why." When someone comes at me with that kind of message, I tend to get very defensive.
So much of what we think we know about the world is just wrong or at least badly slanted.
But to truly effect change in the world we need to be able to deal with it as it truly is.
This book is an easy read, well written, accessible.
If you can get past your ego, I really recommend this book.
The life of professor Rosling was even more impressive, and he shared a great deal of it throughout the years by using his unique technique and tireless enthusiasm making the World a less ignorant place.
This is the book that will continue making the impact for generations to come and inspire new thinkers to whom a fact-based approach is central to life and research.Hans Rosling was one of the greatest fighters against ignorance, an impressive educator, a clear thinker, a doctor solving major health crises, Ebola included, and a man with many other astonishing achievements.
Like the title entails. This is about the FACTS. Had the luck to see him once when he visited Chicago. Incredible man. God Bless and may he rest in peace.
Lieliski! Pat ja puse no rakstītā ir patiesība, pasaule patiešām kļūst labāka. Domāju derētu tulkojums latviski, lai visi "mums viss ir slikti" cilvēki varētu saprast,ka tas, ko raksta avīzēs un rāda TV, ne vienmēr ir patiess.
There are some undefined terms (what does "some" vaccination mean?)Mostly, though, he is indeed very right, and mostly what he discusses is very relevant.Speaking of "wealth levels" - his ideas about that, combined with the questionnaire, are worth the book in themselves.Book darts marked:"The number of people on Level 3 will increase from two billion to four billion between now and 2040.
Ai, cik žēl, ka pēdējās 70lpp bija atsauces, norādes, avoti un pateicības! Bet tas jau laikam norāda uz nopietnību.Lieliska grāmata! Ja jūs šod izdomājat izlasīt tikai vienu zinātnisku grāmatu, lai tā ir šī.Starptautiskās ziņas nekad vairs neskatīsieties kā agrāk. Varbūt par vēlēšanās nobalsosiet par kaut ko jēdzīgu (ja tas vispār ir iespējams), bet pat ja neizlemsiet pamainīt savu domāšanas taku, varēsiet daudzus faktus un autora atstāstītas situācijas izmantot kolēģu šarmēšanai formālās un mazāk formālās ballītēs.Obligāti izlasiet! (Mazliet piestrādāju, lai grāmata pienācīgā daudzumā būtu JR veikalos, tāpēc no amazones nav jāsūta ;) )
