https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90818.The_Complete_Poems
Can you really write a review for the entire output of one poet? Carl Sandburg represents America of the first half of the 20th century - industry, landscape, society - trust me, it is all in here. I tend to enjoy the smaller poems about weather or relationships, like "The Great Hunt," "Valley Song," "Offering and Rebuff" more than the longer poems about a place or event. Completely worth the time it takes to read through. I wanted to do that before visiting his house in Flat Rock, NC, which isn't far from where I live. Check!

832 pages of Sandburg! Can you imagine anything worse? What? The Collected Poems of Southey runs to 2288 pages? Oh. Well, then, I concede that less of bad thing is better than more of a bad thing.
Grass
There is a wolf in me … fangs pointed for tearing gashes … a red tongue for raw meat … and the hot l
Topically and formally, Sandburg mimics the poems of Walt Whitman.
There is a charm and diversity, an empathy and a boldness that Whitman has, but Sandburg lacks.
And Whitman was more diverse than his well-known Leaves of Grass prophecies.
Sandburg wrote some memorable poems in including the much-anthologized Chicago and Fog. The first section, Chicago Poems, could easily be viewed as one continuing poem like Leaves of Grass.
And there are gems throughout this set, particularly in the sections titled War Poems and the portraits of poverty in Shadows.But Sandburg lacks something – perhaps the bold sweep and bravado of Whitman.
The only poet I really like. Focuses on the character and lives of the American people and the nation's physical beauty.My favorite:Carl Sandburg (1878–1967). Chicago Poems. 1916.137. I Am the People, the MobI AM the people—the mob—the crowd—the mass. Do you know that all the great work of the world is done through me? I am the workingman, the inventor, the maker of the world’s food and clothes. I am the audience that witnesses history. The Napoleons come from me and the Lincolns. They die. And
I Am the People, the MobI AM the people—the mob—the crowd—the mass.
The Napoleons come from me and the Lincolns.
Everything but Death comes to me and makes me work and give up what I have.
And I forget.
And I forget.
And I forget.
5Sometimes I growl, shake myself and spatter a few red drops for history to remember.
Then—I forget.
When I, the People, learn to remember, when I, the People, use the lessons of yesterday and no longer forget who robbed me last year, who played me for a fool—then there will be no speaker in all the world say the name: “The People,” with any fleck of a sneer in his voice or any far-off smile of derision.
The mob—the crowd—the mass—will arrive then.
My all-time favorite poet. My copy of this book is old and worn with pages turned down and passages underlined all over the place, but that's just the way I like it. I think it's his midwestern voice that appeals so much to me.
Didn't finish it but it's a book to keep.
working class hero
some magical little wordplay and visuals in here, but a little to nonlinear and ethereal for me, i did not read most of this
Carl Sandburg is a favorite contemporary poet. I wish this book was in two volumes instead of one because it is huge.
I LOVE HIS POEMS!! Very down to earth. Some are pretty funny. I like the way his minds thinks. If you enjoy poetry, you will enjoy this.
3 3/4 stars
I enjoyed the many years of poetry this book offered. It was a long book, so settle down to read this one.
811.5
LOVE!!
He made words play, sigh, banter and fuss, no one else sounds like Sandburg.
