https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3805.The_Corrections
•By 2004, it is believed that every used bookstore in the continental United States contained at least two dozen copies of Jonathan Franzen's novel The Corrections on its shelves.•However, according to rumor, for every copy of Jonathan Franzen's novel The Corrections you can see, ten more are hiding inside the walls or beneath the floorboards.•Professional ex-libris-terminators worry that the infestation has spread from used bookstores to private homes.
But I had little desire to read this book and I have no desire to read his others, so I'm going to box up this copy of Jonathan Franzen's novel The Corrections, drop it at the back door of the nearest thrift store, and run like hell.
Please know that I will not be interacting with any comments as I remember almost nothing about this novel other than the repulsion I felt toward it.
Kindly agree to disagree and move along.**********A seemingly unending stream of word vomit.I can think of no other way to describe this thing.I really, really despised almost everything about The Corrections.
which means, I suppose, that Enid was probably the most well-represented character in the novel.The secondary characters were almost entirely a sorry lot with personalities to the extreme in any number of directions - too smart, too stupid, too needy, too plain, too EVERYTHING.I know that I'll never understand the praise this book received from critics and readers...
And when a shotgun was introduced late in the novel, I read the rest of it with my fingers crossed while muttering "Please please please please please please..." in the hope that at least one of those pitiful shits would end up taking a load of buckshot to the face.The Lambert’s are a Midwestern family, and while the grown children have all moved to Philadelphia and New York, the parents have remained in St. Jude.
At least she’s the one member of this dysfunctional hellspawned family that knows she has issues and tries not to deceive herself any more than most people do.The weird thing is that even though I loathed the Lamberts and almost every supporting character, too, that I actually enjoyed this book.
“THE CORRECTION, when it finally came, was not an overnight bursting of a bubble but a much more gentle let down, a year-long leakage of value from key financial markets, a contraction too gradual to generate headlines and too predictable to seriously hurt anybody but fools and the working poor.” There may be big events that finally shove us forward, backwards or sideways, but in the aftermath most of us can find, with some self-evaluation, that the crash in our lives was preceded by a series of miniature inadvisable decisions.
Do I have to?David Foster Wallace once said, "Fiction’s about what it is to be a fucking human being." And you know, he's right.In The Corrections, Franzen absolutely nails (not literally) each member of a dysfunctional (average!??!) family.
and he was afraid that if the idea he was depressed gained currency, he would forefit the right to his opinions.
That bitch is just like my sister!"Whatever the case, you KNOW these people Franzen writes about.
It IS about being a human being.And it is done very damn well.This is NOT my last Franzen.
I can't think Hugh Selby had very friendly thoughts when he wrote his brilliant Last Exit to Brooklyn, it reads like he wants to shove all of us into a landfill site and have done with the human race.
(But here, they don't think of Goodreads as a social networking site, so shhhh, don't tell them....!)9 Interesting verbs are seldom very interesting.He's galumphing again.10 You have to love before you can be relentlessThat's from a Christmas cracker, i bet.*********Anyway, The Corrections is one of the few books which made me want to find out what the guy wrote next, which was Freedom (what a crap title).
Conrad told me that Jonathan Franzen has been quoted as saying he deliberately rips off influential late-century American authors such as Pynchon, DeLillo and Roth, but tries to make the prose less difficult, more easily consumed.Leaving aside for a moment the irony of that statement in light of his outrage over the Oprah thing, that is retarded.
Otherwise I had no use for Franzen and his truckloads of loathing.
An open letter to my former copy of The Corrections:First I want to tell you that it isn’t you, it’s me. People and books grow apart just like people and people grow apart. I remember years ago when I read you that there were certain things about you that I really liked; but the truth is, I just wasn’t really that into you. Yeah, that little stunt with Oprah was pretty cute, and I recall we had a laugh, but I’m just at that point in my life where I need to make space for new experiences – open
I remember years ago when I read you that there were certain things about you that I really liked; but the truth is, I just wasn’t really that into you.
And you’re kinda crowding me a bit.I know you asked me “Where did it all go wrong?” I could hear your muffled whine from the trunk as I drove you with the other books to Goodwill.
Some books, like people, have a character flaw.
It’s just that I personally think that your author is, and I don’t want to live in the literary world he wishes to create.
Until you find a new home I think you’ll like it here.
I mean, these are people who are so flawed emotionally and so utterly selfish inherently, and yet each of them has this capacity for loving one another even while recognizing their inability to stand each other for more than five minutes at a time: in a sense they are more human than most humans.
And Franzen knows how to write a sentence, my God. All this book did was remind me why I love to read.Honestly, I try to give five stars sparingly, but this one I fully endorse.
Juxtapose that with the tenderness Chip shows his dad toward the end of the novel, and you start to wonder whether this man was ever really the emotionally unavailable tyrant that you thought he was.
His children are broken mirrors of their own reaction to growing up with this man, and his wife a terribly sad monument to how many different ways a human body and mind can possibly find to twist around and protect a piece of stone that can’t see and then can’t bear to admit just how many cracks it has developed.Chip, the first child to appear, gives us what appears to be the real lay of the land at the start.
It also won or was nominated for a number of other prestigious literary prizes.David Gates wrote in his glowing review in the New York Times that the book had “just enough novel-of-paranoia touches so Oprah won’t assign it and ruin Franzen’s street cred.”Wrong, David.
And after 568 pages, I not only don’t like the people, I don’t like the book either.The two stars were for the writing (otherwise it would have been one), and even then, there were times I wasn’t crazy about the writing either.
That said, Franzen can indeed be a bit wordy; some of his sentences are a little highfalutin for their intended purpose and his word choices occasionally make you feel as if one of his aims for this book was to bump thesaurus sales, but if an author keeps you reading despite looking over at a dictionary once in a while, I'd say they still did their job.
In all, I'm not looking to make some grand statement here about how we must all rethink our collective "Franzen hate" and slap him on the cover of TIME once again, but a writer's most important work (for me, at least) will always be what they put on the page within their books.
"Gunter gleiben glauchen globenAll rightI got somethin' to say" "no serenade, no fire brigade, just pyromania" {{ Def Leppard, Rock of Ages, 1982 }} Despite Herr Franzen's picturesque prose and stellar structuring, I could not get past the gloomy, grating, grinding, megalomaniacal, monomaniacal, hypochondriacal, nymphomaniacal bitching, bemoaning, boohooing, bleating and bloated backbiting and bullshit of this family full of neurotic whiners, stretching from the Midwest to the Northeast for an
"Gunter gleiben glauchen globenAll rightI got somethin' to say"
"no serenade, no fire brigade, just pyromania" {{ Def Leppard, Rock of Ages, 1982 }}
  Despite Herr Franzen's picturesque prose and stellar structuring, I could not get past the gloomy, grating, grinding, megalomaniacal, monomaniacal, hypochondriacal, nymphomaniacal bitching, bemoaning, boohooing, bleating and bloated backbiting and bullshit of this family full of neurotic whiners, stretching from the Midwest to the Northeast for an entire 653 pages. If The Corrections is the Great American Novel, have mercy on U.S. all!!..
A literary progeny of John Barth, Richard Ford and Walker Percy Franzen is well suited for this ambitious, epic and thought provoking examination of our society as exhibited by the Lamberts.Alfred is a retired railroad engineer who is by nature cold and aloof, and has been a domestic tyrant over Enid for the length of their marriage.
To Gary, and especially the deplorable Caroline, family is just the appearance, not the underlying love and affection.Chip is a failed professor, and Denise a once successful restaurateur and both have stumbled because of underlying psychologically damaged self esteem manifested by sexually self-destructive behavior.
Dear Mr. Franzen,Please be so good as to kindly go unfug yourself.Sincerely,The fabulous Edith Wharton
Worst of all, you must witness over and over again the panic of a person who can't remember how to speak.It took me nearly 20 years to read Jonathan Franzen's award-winning novel, "The Corrections." At first I avoided it because I was tired of books about dysfunctional families.
The story follows Alfred and Enid Lambert, elderly parents living in the fictional Midwestern city of St. Jude.
(Did I really need to read a long description of Chip trying to fuck a couch after his girlfriend dumps him?) But overall, this is a novel I would recommend to readers who like literary fiction and family dramas.
The much appreciated "The Corrections" is a prime example of what can occur if all you do is describe members of a family (it is not even all that dysfunctional--which is why the pathos is all too real).
The Lamberts have a fallen patriarch, a mother who is on the verge of being taken under by her spouse (in other words, she's The Mother), a sibling who cares too much, another one too little, & a younger sister who may be a workaholic.
Will Gary (Son #1) change for the better, be less of the older sibling, and therefore less of an asshole?
It hurts to realize that, as an older sibling, I am a Gary.
Keza benim için de öyle.İlk satırlarıyla Franzen, okura ne kadar zekice ve edebi anlamda doyurucu bir evrenle karşılaşabileceğini yukarıdaki cümlelerle duyuruyor.
Okuduğum anda kitabın ilk cümlelerinde huzursuzluk öncesi her şeyi metaforlar içinde genişleterek anlatan ağız sulandıran, kendimi bazı sayfaları defalarca tekrar tekrar yüksek sesle Franzen'in diyeceklerini duyabilmek için okuduğum müthiş bir kitap.
Aile dinamiklerini ve politikalarını birden fazla nesiller içinde mutasyona uğratıp, okuru paranoyak derecesine getirip huzursuzluk metaforlarını teker teker okura deneyimlettiriyorKonuEn basit anlamda orta-batılı 5 yetişkin olan Lambertlerin berbatlaşan ilişkilerini okuyoruz.
Bu nedenle eline kitabı alıp sürüklenmeyi umut eden okura çok fazla hitap edebilecek bir kitap değil.
Bu durumda, kitabı ilk bitirdiğimde 4 mü olsa 5 mi olsa diye beni çok ikilemde bıraktı.
Since this book is about a dysfunctional (that needed "corrections") American family, each of the American readers - critics included - was probably able to see him/herself in at least one of the many characters of this book.
I had to hold my breath on its last few pages this morning as Franzen put the conclusion "The Corrections" closing the life story of Alfred (who refused to eat so he died) and Enid (who still sees hope despite being a new widow at the age of 75).There was a handful of other books that I got reminded of while reading this novel.
I feel the need to respond because I loved this book, and even re-read it about a year ago.One point Kate makes is that this book is full of rotten characters and some of them don't stand up off the page.
And I think this is what makes us human.The main thing I love about this novel, the redeeming quality I would like to use as a shield, is the author's mastery of psychic distance and perspective.
From start to finish on my third time through this book - my first experiencing it through text and not audio – I was struck anew at not only the bleak, hilarious story it tells but at the beauty of the writing, at the way Franzen knows how to turn a phrase.
An aside; Melissa’s father, Tom, is mentioned, an almost throw-away reference, later in the book, during Denise’s story I didn't notice until this third read through, but it significantly increased my incredulity at the author’s artistry.
Franzen’s novel goes from great to classic if looked at through this lens, tragedy rewritten as farce.
Indeed, Franzen’s entire novel is tragedy re-imagined as Farce.
Franzen ile ilk tanışmamdı ayrıca, daha kitabın yarısındayken diğer kitaplarını da arşivime ekletti.Neresinden başlayayım bilmiyorum ama kitabı hep "tam bir roman" diye izah ettiğimi fark ettim.
Hatta öyle ki bazı yerlerde "biraz fazla mı geveze" diyecekken geri dönüp düşündüğümde ya da birkaç adım sonrasında verdiği ayrıntının, işaret ettiği şeyin büyük bir depremin artçıları olduğunu keşfettiriyor.
Küçüklükte yaşadığımız olayların, travmaların, kurduğumuz arkadaşlıkların ve hatta yan komşumuzun kim olduğunun bile geleceğimizi nasıl etkilediğini anlatıyor roman.
Sonra bir ara, ana karakterlerimizden biri sayesinde Litvanya'ya uğruyor oradaki siyasi gerginliği ve kopmayı yaşıyoruz.
Birbirinden ayrı okunmuyor aksine bir bütün olarak "tam bir roman" şöleni sunuyor.
And it does this simply by telling the story of Alfred and Enid and their three children, Gary, Chip and Denise.
So when you get a novel like this one, lauded as being revealing and wise and so deep, so deep - it becomes less about the quality of the story, the prose, the skill and talent and craft involved in creating it, the sheer hard work, and more about being better than other books.
So it's ironic that Franzen would have written a book that fits Oprah's criteria to a tee, and then gone all elitist snob on her and essentially, by turning it down, said "it may be about depressing middle American people, but I don't want it read by them.
Üzerimde yarattığı yıkımdan bahsetmem zor ama en temelinde ‘Düzeltmeler’, roman gibi bir roman.
Öylesine ayrıntılarla ve muazzam derecede gerçekçi bir şekilde örülmüş ki insanın herhangi bir duygu birliği yaşamaması imkânsız gibi geliyor.
Bir de henüz yolun sonuna erişmemişler için çok acımasız bir kehanette bulunuyor yazar.
Bir varmış bir yokmuş… Lakin var olanda, yok olan da acıtıyor.
Zaman zaman maskelediğimiz, üzerine bir perde çektiğimiz her ayrıntının aslında ilerdeki kararlarımızda nasıl büyük puntolarla söz hakkı sahibi olduğunu gösteriyor.
Beni yıkıp geçmiş olsa da bazen bir yazarın gelip size cimdik atıp farkındalık kazandırması insanın kendiyle olan kavgası için çok güçlü bir silah olabiliyor.
I loved Franzen's Freedom and really couldn't wait to get into this novel. I listened to this on audiobook (it helped that my favourite reader, George Guidall, recorded this in unabridged form). George does a brilliant job, as he always does. The story is long and complex and funny and sad. It has the right mix of obnoxious characters and those who evoke sympathy. I liked it and I loved bits of it. The last part of the book was brilliant and in the end I was really sad I'd finished it.
Ήμουν πολύ νέος-φευ !Fast forward 15 χρόνια μετά και στην ηλικία των τέκνων της οικογένειας Λάμπερτ δοκίμασα να το ξαναδιαβάσω και βλέπω τα πάντα : η οικογένεια, η δουλειά, το σεξ, τα χρήματα, η επιτυχία, η αποτυχία, οι συγγενείς, οι φίλοι, τα γηρατειά, η αρρώστια, οι ενοχές.
Από τα σύγχρονα κλασσικά βιβλία, πολύ θα ήθελα να το δω στον κινηματογράφο ή στην τηλεόραση, κρίμα που ο τηλεοπτικός πιλότος του HBO ναυάγησε πριν λίγα χρόνια.

And yet I've always known that if I gave in to this ungenerous voice, and refrained from reading as avidly as I do, I'd become an even worse writer than the one I fear I am in my darkest moments.This was a far from necessary preamble, and has nothing to do with Franzen's masterpiece.
I've read the book that made Franzen as huge as he deserves to be seven times - yep, I'm obsessed with the guy - and it keeps getting better and better.
I didn't like The Corrections. I didn't like or care about any of the characters. Seems like I've been reading about the prototypical dysfunctional American family for decades. This one was humorless and boring. Probably because the characters lacked personality.I know most people loved it or said they did, I've already heard all the arguments defending it.
And beautiful, hard-working Denise is a successful chef who bounces from one failed relationship to another.Stories about dysfunctional families hold a real fascination for me, and boy do the Lamberts have issues.
The lazy, self-serving Chip was the only character I did not care for, and I found myself skimming through his pages.The Corrections is a family saga that is as insightful, witty and genuine as any I've read.
However, the story always came back to the Lamberts - as real and as fascinating a fictional family as you could ever come across.
