https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89160.Judgment_in_Death
In an uptown strip joint, a cop is found bludgeoned to death. The weapon's a baseball bat. The motive's a mystery. It's a case of serious overkill that pushes Eve Dallas straight into overdrive. Her investigation uncovers a private club that's more than a hot spot.  This series is addictive. Although the number of books in the series is quite daunting! "I don't know how to do this! I love you, and it makes me crazy."He had to laugh. She looked so baffled."Christ Jesus, Eve, you're a piece of w
In an uptown strip joint, a cop is found bludgeoned to death.
The weapon's a baseball bat.
The motive's a mystery.
It's a case of serious overkill that pushes Eve Dallas straight into overdrive.
Her investigation uncovers a private club that's more than a hot spot.
This series is addictive.
Although the number of books in the series is quite daunting!
I love you, and it makes me crazy."He had to laugh.
She looked so baffled."Christ Jesus, Eve, you're a piece of work."
We definitely get more Roarke and Eve time in this one.
Will love you always Binky xxx
Over the course of this long series I am always amazed at the consistent quality of J.D. Robb's writing, but some of the books do stand out in excellence.
Mavis has a very funny scene with Eve when they try to solve her problems with the aid of alcohol and ice cream.
Mira tries to help solve the same problems in a very different way.
J.D. Robb has a talent for funny one liners and amusing banter.I do have issues with Roarke in this book because I felt he was way out of line when (view spoiler)[he interfered in Eve's case.
Roarke <3 I love him so much. :) She woke to sunlight and the scent of coffee. The first thing she saw was Roarke, with a mug of coffee in his hand. "How much would you pay for this?""Name your price." she sat up took it from him, drank gratefully. "this is one of my favorite parts of the marriage deal." She let the caffeine flow through her system. "I mean the sex is pretty good, but the coffee...the Coffee is amazing. And you're all-round handy yourself most of the time.. thanks.""Don't men
Roarke <3 I love him so much. :)
  She woke to sunlight and the scent of coffee. The first thing she saw was Roarke, with a mug of coffee in his hand. "How much would you pay for this?""Name your price." she sat up took it from him, drank gratefully. "this is one of my favorite parts of the marriage deal." She let the caffeine flow through her system. "I mean the sex is pretty good, but the coffee...the Coffee is amazing. And you're all-round handy yourself most of the time.. thanks.""Don't mention it.” :D
LOVED IT. It is as simple as that. This series is crazy good. I’m still baffled as to how she does it. After 11 books I still adore Roarke and Eve. In Judgement in Death cops are being murdered. One is murdered in a place Roarke owns. Eve is not surprised by this but this particular club connects Roarke to a man he thought he left in his past. Max Ricker would make a mistake that he’d regret.  Listen to me now, and carefully. Touch her, put your hand on what’s mine again, and I’ll follow you to
After 11 books I still adore Roarke and Eve. In Judgement in Death cops are being murdered.
Eve is not surprised by this but this particular club connects Roarke to a man he thought he left in his past.
“I love you, Eve. Nothing changes that, nothing could.
A guy got his hooks in your heart, he just reels you right in.”  “I’m not a goddamn fish.” “We are all fish,” Mavis said in rounded tones, “in the great sea of life.” 
Roarke was now part of her life and when these two pieces crashed together it was hard for her.
So, there's a cop-killer in this book.
But, he's only killing bad cops who were on the take, so really, is that so bad?
blah.blah.blah.Along with this mystery is the mystery of Eve's stolen candy.
Of course, I have my suspicions about who the candy-thief is and hope to have them confirmed in the future.
And, really, that is the fun in these books because it's not that hard to figure out the bad-guy usually, but watching all of it play out is good.
Eve and Roarke get into a serious knock-down, drag-out fight in this book.
2.5 starsWhat I like about these books are the way the investigation progresses in the futuristic world.The name of the book exactly suggests why the killings are happening in this one...
There is a killer judging and killing remorselessly..Eve Dallas tries her best to sort out the mess and find the killer as soon as possible.
She let's nothing stand in her way, not even the fact that she may be judged for her actions...There was too much focus on Roarke and Eve's personal life and a lot of it covered the first real big fight they have..
My love of this series continues – I would say it’s the best series I’ve ever read (my personal opinion of course!) Author JD Robb seems to have unlimited ideas for this series, and I hope she never runs out!For Detective Eve Dallas, this case is far too personal.
Eve, with the help of the whole NYPSD – and Roarke – were determined to get answers.
Another excellent read; the laugh out loud moments are there; the seriousness of murder; the antics between Roarke and Eve – all together make a highly recommendable series.
Absolutely adore this series and it's characters!
"Nonetheless. Both of you reacted as natural for you, engaged in a bout of rough, sweaty sex that no doubt satisfied you.""You'd have thought so, but we hadn't even cooled off when he picked me up off the floor and carried me into bed and did it all over again."Mira stared, rather blankly. "Does he have a particular diet? Vitamins?"  This quote is fun, but it's much more fun when you think that's Mira speaking! LOLIn this series the absolute best are the characters! All the characters! Each on
Both of you reacted as natural for you, engaged in a bout of rough, sweaty sex that no doubt satisfied you.""You'd have thought so, but we hadn't even cooled off when he picked me up off the floor and carried me into bed and did it all over again."Mira stared, rather blankly.
LOLIn this series the absolute best are the characters!
All the characters!
“This is just the prototype.”She felt the color drain out of her face.
Actually felt it.
“ ’Cause I had this dream.
Maybe a dream.
I was just floating and you were standing there, ragging my ass.
All the books I've read so fare are full of this kind of dialogues!!!
Someone is killing cops on Eve Dallas' watch and she won't stand for that.
The first cop was killed in a nightclub owned by her husband Roarke, so he won't stand for it either.
Together they make a formidable team, but all is not peaches and cream and they have their first real row over Roarke's over-protectiveness of Eve when she's facing danger on the job.
Peabody is enjoying juggling two lovers and sometimes giving Eve to much information.
As always an entertaining read with plenty of wry humour as Eve and her team hunt down the killer with a little help from Roarke.
This is my third time reading straight through the In Death series (have read certain books many times more), and I have to say it is pure pleasure each time.
I first read the paperbacks, then had the pleasure of listening to Susan Ericksen's interpretation in the audiobooks, and now - this time, I'm reading them on Kindle.
If you haven't tried this series, you're missing a real gem.
It's nearly impossible to keep a series fresh book after book after book and yet, Robb knocks it out of the park every single time.
Another Must Read in the series!
She knows these characters so well and is so versatile with the voices.
Love the rugged, poetic Irish lilt of Roarke’s voice; the friendly airiness of Mavis’s; the professional, dependable, but decidedly sassy Detective Delia Peabody’s; and the insightful, intelligence, serene, upper class New England accent of Dr. Charlotte Mira’s.Still, I have to give Ms. Robb (AKA Nora Roberts) major kudos.
Ms. Robb pushes the envelope, takes them to a new level, and makes it work – all while entwining them in a compelling mystery that is the catalyst of their evolution.In Death series in correct reading order.
Of course I love this book.
But, my only draw back is something that shows itself in tons of books and real life.
It's the private art collection of famous artists.
Art is not meant to be hoarded.
I mean, books are art.
How terrible would it be if only one person could read Austen or Robb?Reread July 2018 — Eve and the gang are on the hunt for a cop killer meanwhile a bad guy from Roarke’s past is rearing his ugly head.
I mean he’s killing and uncovering dirty cops.
Eve is forced to “stand for the dead” even though she is disgusted by them.
As a cop, she doens't leave one angle unexplored, she actually has a knack for getting into any perpetrator's brain and anticipate his every move.
In this book's case she was after a cop-killer, which in itself is a very emotional and demanding task.
Applause to both J.D. Robb and Eve. Someone would think that the author might get sloppy or hasty after so many books, but NO, this one was as solid a mystery as in any previous book in the series.As a friend, she is loyal, always standing by her friends or whomever is decent and fair towards her.
2nd read: 27th November-1st december 20141st read: 26th February- 13th March 2013 That's me every time I finish a book in this seriesThis is the first installment in the In death series that I review, and it’s hard! I loved everything, even the fighting, and I don’t have anything to say that the other people who wrote reviews didn’t say before me. It was a pleasure to listen to it, I don’t think I’ve enjoyed another audiobook more. About the novel: In this book Eve deals with a cop killer and as
I loved how she made everything work, and… let’s face it: I loved the making up part =))The secondary characters that we’ve come to expect were also here and had minor and major roles and we saw more glimpses from their lives: Peabody still strings McNab along and loves it, Doctor Mira is the strong professional woman that, to me, shows how Eve will be in 20 something years and how well hers and Roarke’s relationship will go, Mavis and Leonardo have the time of their lives together and with their careers… all in all: everything is well when it ends well.
I'm still completely and unapologetically addicted to the characters in this series - especially Eve and Roarke, but even the supporting characters are so real and relatable they get under my skin.This time around, Eve's hunting a cop killer.
There's a reason why Nora Roberts - writing as J.D. Robb - has published so many books and is consistently on bestseller lists - she writes amazing characters doing interesting things in ways that make you want to be IN the books!Even the supporting and minor characters in this series are written as fully realized people.
I liked this one, if not for the mistake made by the killer I would have liked it till the end. As usual Eve and Roarke don't disappoint. I'm happy there was finally someone for Roarke to be jealous of too!
Judgement in Death4 StarsHomicide Lieutenant Eve Dallas faces one of her most challenging cases when an off duty police officer is killed in a deliberate and vicious attack.
The storyline revolving around the murders of several apparently corrupt police officers and their connection to a career criminal and former associate of Roarke's is very compelling.
The secondary cast is as appealing as ever and my favorite scene has to be Eve's conversation with Dr. Mira about Roarke, which gets the prim and proper psychologist very hot and bothered, lol!
IAB Lieutenant Don Webster also puts in a more significant appearance and his character really shines through.
RTC!
This is the 11th book in the In Death series.It is early Spring 2059 and Eve is called to the scene of a bludgeoning death in a classy, upscale strip club called Purgatory.
Now Eve has to find a cop killer, face off with a master criminal and butt heads with Internal Affairs as she begins to uncover some unsavory facts about members of the force.As this series goes on, each book builds on the one before it.
Ricker, the crime lord was a good adversary for Eve. I love the fact that he was just totally bat-shit insane.
I really enjoyed this 11th book in J.D. Robb's "In Death" series!
I love that he took Eve's side and told her she was completely right in the actions she took to protect Roarke.
It would sit better for me if it didn't always feel like Roarke was being portrayed as the more reasonable one, the one who's more logical, and right.
There is the odd page where he isn't, but in the end it always gets turned so that gets played down.Usually this doesn't bother me this much, but it did in this one.This is becoming a situation where I need Roarke to be wrong in the relationship dynamics.
4.5-5 stars - Romantic Suspense/Sci-Fi/Futuristic/Thriller
So, I was re-reading this for the umpteenth time...love the drama that comes from a newly married relationship between two people with 'rock hard heads bashing against each other'...Mavis' words, not mine;) The whole Webster-Roarke fight and the resulting scene afterwards are vintage Robb...two of the most famous scenes in the series. A great read to get me in the mindset for the new In Death release coming soon!
Another great read - really do like Judgment in Death - all the angst, bodies piling up, wrong cops - real bad guy introduced! I can even overlook the Lieutenant being called a Detective! One of my favourite books in this series. Eve has lots of nasty characters to deal with and she does deal with them!It's all a matter of who has the biggest balls - hmmmm, I would have to say Roarke does! :)Two thumbs up and 5 stars!
My favorite books in this series are the ones that Roarke acts like the alpha dog he's portrayed to be, but rarely see.
This installment totally delivers and just may be my favorite.
I loved his caveman act and that he did not indulge Eve's every whim and take all the crap she constantly dishes out.
I loved the fact that they had some turmoil within their marriage and it took honest communication and compromise to work it out.
The case was interesting, especially when Roarke was enlisted to assist, but it was secondary to their relationship dynamics as that is what earned this book 5 stars from me.
This was pretty good!
I figured out the who-dun-it fairly quickly but wasn't sure of the why or how it would pan out and shed a few tears with the way it did unfold.
Liked Webster and hope we see him again.Roarke, of course, was awesome sauce with an extra side of yummy alpha thrown in.
A few ends were left loose(view spoiler)[who was the leak in IAD?
(hide spoiler)] the Peabody thing with her two "men" is wearing annoyingly thin.Overall a very good installment.
Another good one. A cop killer who is getting rid of bad and corrupt cops in gruesome ways. I feel bad because the killer is a good man but because of a great loss he had to avenge the loved one.Eve and I have a like/dislike relationship. In this one, I like her. And I cried in the cemetery scene. I thought Eve was great there.Eve and Roarke together is awesome plus the secondary characters whom I also love but in my opinion Roarke is the best character in this series. Perfect. Perfect. Perfecto.
Novel JD Robb favorit saya. Semua novel JD Robb itu bagus dan tanpa cela, di mata saya, tp saya plg suka yg ini. Karena disinilah pertama kalinya Eve dan Roarke bertengkar hebat cuma gr2 ego Roarke yg tercoreng sebagai laki-laki yg teritorinya diganggu. Novel ini penuh emosi, lbh intim, dengan plot yg luar biasa.Kayaknya g ada lg yg bs saya komentarin. JD Robb will always be awesome.
She soon discovers that the victim is a police officer who has been moonlighting as a bartender in a strip club owned by her husband, Roarke.
Eve has to worm her way through the truth and the lies in order to catch a killer.This book brings up a lot of Roarke's past "business" dealings.
You know that a book is well written when you are yelling at the characters (because you know they can hear every word!)Eve is so accustomed to being on her own and fending for herself.
