https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/840587.King_Matt_the_First
Konig hanschen (Król Maciuś #1), Janusz Korczakتاریخ نخستین خوانش: نهم ماه اکتبر سال 1978 میلادیعنوان: هنس کوچولو جلد 2؛ اثر: یانوش کورچاک؛ مترجم: بهرام حبیبی؛ نشر: تهران، 1357، در دو جلد مصور و رنگی، در 580 ص، این جلد 238 صهنس کوچولو، بر ساحل نشسته، سنگریزه به دریا میاندازد.
او از کسی نمیترسد.
و با کسی حرف نمیزند و در فکر فردا نیست.
برمیخیزد و سر لانه ی مورچگان میرود.
روی کنده ی درختی مینشیند، و مورچگان را تماشا میکند.
تکه برگی روی لانه میاندازد و میبیند مورچه ها با چه تلاشی آن را کنار میزنند.
این جانوران ریزه.
As far as I know, King Matt the First is a novel for children like no one other around.
And yet King Matt is apparently a milestone in children books in Poland, while Janusz Korczak himself was a famous pedagogist with an interesting personal story and brave ideas on how to educate the young generations.What I appreciated of this book is the way it treats its young readers.
Korczak explains many things in a patient and peculiar way skilfully managing to don't be didactical or paternalist.Of course there is a moral also behind "King Matt the First" but children are required to get it by themselves, page after page.
I do not understand the love for this book.King Matt the First is a story about a prince who becomes king at a young age.
Obviously he has no idea what a king is supposed to do, so he starts off doing wacky things like making a huge doll for a random girl he meets, then runs off to war to play soldier.
Later he creates a children's parliament, where children can govern themselves however they see fit, which of course leads to all sorts of trouble.
They all acted as if they were seven or younger, which didn't make any sense since clearly older children were also supposed to be present.
King Matt the First by Janusz Korczak is one of those gems picked at random from the library.
The book was first published in 1923 and was one of twenty novels by child advocate Henryk Goldszmit writing under the pen name Janusz Korczak.
To learn more about his life and his mission, read the Boylan Blog post.Matt becomes king at the tender age of five when his ailing father dies.
He also knows he has a lot to learn before he can be an effective monarch.This 300 page novel chronicles the rise and fall of King Matt the First.
წიგნი წიგნად ხომ საოცარია, მაგრამ ყველა დამწყებმა მთარგმნელმა და მწერალმა უნდა წაიკითხოს ეს სრულიად გადასარევი ქართული თარგმანი - ლოლა ქადაგიშვილის. ნამდვილი სასწავლო საშუალებაა, როგორი მოქნილი და ლამაზი შეიძლება იყოს ქართული ენა.
One of the most fascinating things about this book is that it was written by a Polish paediatric doctor and educator who introduced many orphanages into Poland. The sad and courageous thing is that during WWII, he refused to leave his orphans as they were being sent to their deaths in a gas chamber. The book has great aspects and interesting characters, but it ends in a very strange way for a children's book. I love the characters of the African Cannibal King Bum-Drum and his daughter Klu-Klu.
This book is AMAZING!!!!!!!!!!!!! This book is about a little boy Matt and his father is sick. His mother is dead and his father dies. Matt becomes king at a young age. He has to go to a lot of meeting with his ministers and he secretly goes to war with his friend Felek, and he wins the war. And later on two more wars. Everyone loves King Matt. He goes on lots of adventures but later on he comes to an unexpected surprise that no one would ever want to encounter.
Beautiful and sad; a portrait of a child monarch attempting to found a utopia on a world too politically similar too our own. An amazing and neglected work of fiction.
Wikipedia tells me it 'has been described as popular in Poland as Peter Pan was in the English-speaking world.' I think the English-speaking world was somewhat larger in population than Poland, so I can't accept any sales pitch about this book being one of the greatest of all time.King Matt was published in an English translation in 1986, and I applaud any cross-cultural sharing of literature, but it's not a book that I would have got for my children (born in 1982 and 1988) if I had heard of it back then.
There are a few swear words worth editing if reading aloud but it doesn't go on through the book (one chapter that I have read needed editing.)As I read I imagine a kindly aging man reading this story aloud to the orphans as the Author is said to have done.
I knew how the story ended all along and I didn't want it and knew that I had no power to change it.
That said, it is one of those books that you close and hold to your chest when you are finished as if you could hug the characters or author themselves with such an act.
came to janusz korczak via something graeme wood tweeted and while korczak's bio is awesome: this book has not aged well. there are some cool things here: the slow maturation of matt from naive orphan king to increasingly tragic young adult, sort of like _the little prince_ but actually about you know, about being a ruler. but the antique racism/stereotyping that keeps coming up makes this hard to appreciate. there is something here but i'm not going to do the work of excavating it and washing all the shit off it.
Gorka i tužna knjiga. Siroti Maćuš, taman što je, sticajem okolnosti, dospeo u svet u kome je sve dozvoljeno, surova stvarnost ga uči pravoj istini, a to je da je dečji san o apsolutnoj slobodi lišenoj autoriteta laž, da ne možeš idealima protiv sistema, protiv ljudske prirode... Još jedna potvrda da su međuratni pisci za decu apsolutni kraljevi mračnjaštva i subverzije.
I can’t believe they would end the book that way.
On the positive side, I loved Klu klu, she was an amazing girl character.
I was glad she was put in the story because so far, all of the strong main characters were boys.
I also quite enjoyed the part of the book where Matt goes to war.
The entire reason I only give this book 3 stars was the ending, but then again, it had a fantastic message that children can do anything, and then ruins it by saying that killing Matt.

I wish they had the Russian edition on here, which is what I read [and am too lazy to update right now.]This book was one of my favorites when I was little, although I remember it being really sad. I was very affected by melancholy when I was small.Anyway, often think about this book and am about to re-read it for inspiration for something - that's got to be worth something, no?I'll update the review once I am done with the book.
This was a book made for kids. Yet by the time they could read this large book they would have outgrown it. I think it would make a great read aloud book to second graders. It had no grown up appeal to it and my older kids would be bored by page 5. I did think the most interesting part of the book was about the author and how he would not leave his kids from a Warsaw orphanage to save his life and was killed in a camp during WWII.
I've read this book decades ago and only knew by its Turkish name: "Çocuk Kral"(Child King). I'm glad I found it. It tells the story of a child prince who becomes king at a very early age.The now king does many absurd and funny reforms such as banning girls from the parliament and sending the grown-ups back to school.Even if the book doesn't make you laugh out loud,it will put a grin on your face.
This is the story of a young boy who becomes king and wants to reform his country. He wants to make it a better place for children to live (a worthy goal, in my opinion), but he does not have the wisdom to know how to go about this. He makes some good laws but also some foolish ones. He is brave and he tries hard. I found the author's background quite interesting and heroic.
Ļoti mīļa bērnības grāmata, kas man iemācīja, ka mani kā bērnu drīkst uztvert nopietni. Ka viss, ko es domāju, nav pilnīgas muļķības. Ka mani drīkst cienīt un manī ieklausīties. Pirmo reizi lasīju grāmatu, kurā bērni tik ļoti tiktu cienīti, tai pat laikā parādot, kādas bērnu iedomas nestrādā un ar ko ir jārēķinās, ja gribi uzcelt sapņu pili reālā vidē. Skaisti un sāpīgi.
File under: books I loved in grade school and then forgot about. I vaguely recall that this tale of 9-year-old king surprised me at the time for actually conveying real insight into politics, power, and war, in a very non fairy-tale-like manner. But on the other hand, this would have been as compared to Redwall, so who knows.
Душераздирающая книга!!!!!!!!!!Любил эту историю, но боялся её читать (и всё равно читал много раз), потому что здесь несправедливость торжествует, но при этом это НАСТОЯЩАЯ детская книга. Януш Корчак знал, что творится в душе у ребёнка и что он сможет выдержать, а что нет!!!Наверное, ЛУЧШАЯ детская книга, которую я когда-либо читал!!!!!!!!!!!
This is a fun book about a nine year old (I think) that becomes king and makes life better for kids, but also learns about all the duties of a king. He also joins the army at some point...there's a lot of cool stuff in there.
excellente
I would recommend this story to anyone, child and grown up alike.
I liked the book..I will read the sequel--'King Matt on a deserted island' if it gets translated in English, which I believe will happen very soon..
I just found this book at the salvation army and was so surprised I hadn't heard of it before. A great homage to childhood and the crazy world of adults.
Książka, która pokazuje, że świat dzieci rządzi się innymi prawami niż świat dorosłych. Jednak większość ludzi, jak staje się dorosłymi, to zapomina, jak to jest być dzieckiem.
Alors ok, l'auteur fut un gars bien, qui milita pour le droit des enfants, il cherche ici peut-être à soutenir les enfants, à leur donner confiance.
(Ça m'énerve)J'ai déjà lu des histoires pour enfants qui les valorisaient et pour autant ne les prenaient pas pour des neuneus...
Ici, il ne semble y avoir aucun souci de réalisme, de profondeur, de cette profondeur un peu mythique qu'on peut trouver dans d'autres histoires ou contes.Par ailleurs, tout cela est terriblement genré.Les filles recevront chaque année une poupée, et les garçons un canif.HAHAHA!
Mais c'est pas pour autant que je vais aimer le livre.
King Matt - A Beloved Classic by the King of Children Were one to associate a book and a fictional character with Janusz Korczak, it would certainly be Krol Macius, King Matthew.
In a similar vein, "King Matt," Matthew's father dies, suddenly leaving the responsibility of ruling the kingdom to the young boy.
More than ever, Matt is convinced that, as king, he must rule his kingdom in a way that would be a good place for children, where they would be respected and taken seriously as, in the words of Korczak, "not people tomorrow, but people today." His reforms include carousels in every town, summer camps in the country that poor children might enjoy nature, toys and candy for those children who deserve but cannot afford such things.
¡Mi segundo libro favorito del año!
De viaje en Polonia, en una librería, le pedí a la dueña que me recomendara a su autor polaco favorito y puso este libro en mis manos.
"Es un libro infantil" - me aclaró, logrando despertar aún más mi curiosidad porque el libro era de 433 páginas y sin ilustraciones.
Es una mezcla entre "El Principito" (por la profundidad de los mensajes) y "Harry Potter" (por la visión y adaptación del protagonista a un nuevo mundo).
La biografía del autor y el contexto histórico en el que escribió esta obra la hacen todavía más valiosa.
