https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300842.The_Vintage_Mencken
For example, his essay, “Star-Spangled Men” considers the chests of military men that bear glittering medals of “every hue in the rainbow, the spectroscope, the kaleidoscope – imperial purples, sforzando reds, wild Irish greens, romantic blues, loud yellows and oranges, rich maroons, sentimental pinks, all the half-tones from ultra-violet to infrared, all the vibrations from the impalpable to the unendurable”.
“A free citizen in a free state,” he wrote, “has an inalienable right to play with whomsoever he will.” If a theme does emerge, therefore, it is Menken’s preference for tolerance and personal freedom, and his dislike of humbug.This collection of essays was compiled by Alistair Cooke as a tribute by one great writer to another.
Yeah, I mean, he’s funny and he’s got some fabulous one liners but on balance he’s a classic troll, cantankerous for its own sake and to prove his individuality, obsessed with personal vendettas which were likely pointless at the time and are now utterly opaque (how much do you know about the American political scene of say, 1926?
Because it turns out I don’t actually know anything either).
It’s sort of illegitimate to compare a newspaperman to a ‘straight’ writer, their primary obligation is to be constantly saying shit of some kind, but his record as revealed here is pretty weak and that’s coming from someone essentially sympathetic to pre-WWII ideas of American isolationism.
H.L. Mencken's brilliance shines through to the modern dayThis book compiles wisdom written nearly a century ago.And yet - Some of it feels as if it was written by a modern-day humorist. Mencken's wit and talent are not in question - but some of the themes he take on are so broad that they are still on topic today.
What can I say that critics haven’t been saying about him for a hundred years? Mencken lacerates more nonsense and makes more sense--common and uncommon--than everyone else that has lived or is to be born. Possibly the most respected journalist of all time. Father of muckraking, destroyer of popular myths, creator of unpopular truths. If you don’t like H.L.M. I probably won‘t like you.There, I bet no one said that before.
Very fine writing, particularly when he stays away from generic... well, news pieces. I'm more interested in his particular opinions and expression of them than some account of 1920s zeitgeist (the articles about fish prices and police etc etc? Oh god, kill me now.), so obviously that's coloring my view quite a bit, but still. Anthony Lane's reminiscent of him in some ways, though Mencken doesn't have his glee.
The curmudgeonly, incomparable Mencken is always a sheer delight to read _ a breath of fresh air amid so much writing that's so canned and predictable. Even when he's wrong about something, he's wonderfully, delightfully wrong _ and only wants to make you read more.
Both high posts are reserved for men favored by God with an extraordinary genius for swathing the bitter facts of life in bandages of soft illusion.""No man ever quite believes in any other man.
Therefore, he takes to artistic endeavor, which is at once a criticism of life and an attempt to escape from life.""The weak spot in his reasoning, if I may presume to suggest such a thing, was his tacit assumption that the voice of the legislature was the voice of the people.
There is, in fact, no reason for confusing the people and the legislature: the two, in these later years, are quite distinct.
After the recent depressing and often illiterate election, it seemed a good time to read Mencken.
With the recent candidates sounding like schoolyard bickerers it was a pleasure to read someone who could insult with such eloquence.
If the right pressure could be applied to him he would be cheerfully in favor of polygamy, astrology or cannibalism."This collection, edited by Alistair Cooke, of Masterpiece Theater fame, is a good place to start if you have not read Mencken before.
Read, enjoy and envy that a man could affirm so much through gleeful hatred.
Mencken, an erudite curmudgeon, is a sort of spiritual grandfather to Christopher Hitchens.
A passable read, giving insight into the Zeitgeist of early 20th century USA, although I could have wished the editor would have selected the pieces more carefully.
to take the place of the missing aristocracy, and even to be mistaken for it.
It lacks all the essential character of a true aristocracy: a clean tradition, culture, public spirit, honesty, honor, courage..
It stands under no public duty; it is transient and lacks a goal.
In this anthology Alistair Cooke claims to have gathered "the best of his [Mencken's:] work, putting the stress on the newspaper pieces that had outlived more pretentious stuff and on the memoirs in which emerged the beautiful, well-tempered, and funny style of his later years" (vii).
Though the these pieces may represent the best of Mencken's work, the collection lacks the cohesive structure and organization present in Mencken's self-directed works.
One could argue that The Vintage Mencken may be enjoyed best by dissection, rather than attempting a singular consolidation.
Mencken, up until The Wire, and arguably beyond, was the smartest source of social commentary ever to emanate from Baltimore, Maryland.
Some of the long-revered newspaperman and editor's views may seem quaint (Mencken inexplicably devotes an essay to the unsightliness of the naked female body), but his railing against demonizing of ethnic Americans during wartime (in this case native-born Germans during World War I) and against craven politics hiding behind false religious virtue are up-to-the-moment bites of outraged common sense.
The cable news channels and online aggregates are crawling with loudmouths who match Mencken's fervor, but if you know of any reasoned voices that approach his honest-to-goodness pillorying of public- and private-sector jackassery, please leave a source link in comments.

Mencken is an old timey sass-filled hoot. He's that guy you meet and think, "This guy does not like me, but he keeps talking at me as though he thinks I like him. Boy is he worked up about things." The greatest challenge to me is figuring out what Mencken would say if he were put in any time period other than his own. He was keyed in on his surroundings so perfectly, and had no problem shouting out what he thought. His opinions are harsh but funny, and brilliantly so. Love Mencken. Because he doesn't want you to.
Good Lord, this makes you want to WRITE! ...and laugh and sing and curse, but it makes you want to WRITE!
Mencken was an opinionated newspaper writer in the 1920s and 30s. I suspect that many of his pieces were written for shock value. I would recommend this if you enjoy old-fashioned satire.
The greatest hater's beautiful, acid prose. The best intro to the Sage of Baltimore's work.

Diverse and interesting collectionA lot of people are probably familiar with Mencken through one of his many witty aphorisms but, as this collection aptly demonstrates, his longer writings are also well worth reading.
Divided into several sections based on topic, this book provides a good selection of pieces of varying lengths.
There were so many great quotes, that I lost track.
Personally, I love his approach to politics and religion, and there were plenty of applicable quotes in that regard.
Other than that, this is a solid collection that is worth your time and money.
Great collection. Truly vintage Mencken.I was fortunate enough to be encouraged to read Mencken by my favorite teacher of all time, Dr. Jim Stiver at the Uni. of South Carolina.I was also able to visit Baltimore over the week of July 4th this year (2017). And I got to see the Mencken room in the Enoch Pratt Free Library as well. Like Calvin Trillin of the NY Times, I have a number of books on or by Mencken. I don't always agree with him but no one turns a phrase quite the way he did.
Dated and in most cases pretty stale. Some historical insights. It would be great to hear what he might have to say about the current administration. That would be fun because he certainly didn't pull any punches.
A wonderful introduction to Mencken. He's seemingly slowly fading into the background of the next generation's consciousness, but oh my is this worth reading. Some truly great observations and fascinating perspectives.
Huge blowhard who cultivated a brand as an "iconoclast" whom US liberals find fascinating for some reason. Run of the mill anti-clerical libertarian aristocrat, what a concept.
It is always a pleasure to read an original, honest, fearless, and penetrating thinker who writes well.
He slept more than any other President, whether by day or by night.” Mencken praises this realization of the Jeffersonian ideal of governing hardly at all, concluding that “[h]e had no ideas, and he was not a nuisance.” In his final published piece, Mencken mocked Baltimore’s ban on blacks and whites playing golf together on public courses: “Why should a man of one race, playing in forma pauperis at the taxpayers’ expense, be permitted to exclude men of another race?
That was October '55 and I was an eighteen year old college freshman.A month ago I found myself recommending The Vintage Mencken to a friend, and my pitch was so successful that I bought another copy from Amazon.
I haven't reread all of it yet, but I have reread a few favorite essays, like Star-Spangled Men and his coverage of the Scopes trial, in which he eviscerates William Jennings Bryan.As an eighteen year old Okie this book opened me to a wider world.
I'd recommend them to anybody with a good mind and a rebellious streak.
There are three or four essays that run in a row in the middle of this book-- "The National Letters," "Star-Spangled Men," "The Archangel Woodrow," and "In Memoriam: W.J.B."-- that are really fantastic.
For one, the man could really write an obituary.
If he wanted, he could write it before the public figure was dead, and that would, in effect, kill his career....The real mark that this book has against it is that, instead of collecting the best Mencken essays, it glues together excerpts of essays, epigrams, an autobiographical paragraph or two.
I'd rather have ten perfect, cogent essays than 40 ragged fragments....

Mencken is starting to fall into obscurity, and that's bad, because we need Mencken at this point in America. Even while his prose and references seem to get more dated, his ideas and philosophy are as relevant as ever. Is this the best of Mencken? No, this is Alistair Cook's favorite Mencken, which is worth reading too.
Vicious, scathing, brilliant, and uproariously funny; Mencken wasn’t only the archetypal take-no-prisoners, “poison pen” journalist; but a master of the English language, as well. Acerbic, American social/political commentary at its finest.
Mencken is my personal hero, I think I can say I agree with him on every little thing he (so wittifully) says. And to think he wrote all this in the 20s... I'd definitely read and highly recommend anything written by him.
