https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/780726.The_Lady_s_Not_for_Burning
THE LADY’S NOT FOR BURNING. (1949). Christopher Fry. ****. This was Fry’s first big hit for the stage, both in the UK and on Broadway. It is written, as you might expect, in blank verse, but flows beautifully, both as a silent read and when read aloud. It is a comedy, though more a comedy of errors than one of general humor. It is about the announced marriage of a young girl to one of twin brothers, Humphrey, who suddenly realizes that the doesn’t love her but has to go through with the ceremony
It is about the announced marriage of a young girl to one of twin brothers, Humphrey, who suddenly realizes that the doesn’t love her but has to go through with the ceremony.
When his brother Nicholas meets the young lady, however, he realizes that he loves her and does what he can to steal him from Humphrey – who doesn’t fight back too hard.
Then we meet Thomas, who wanders into the mayor’s office and demands to be hung.
The villagers have accused her of being a witch and of killing two of their citizens.
This is, sincerely, one of the best and funniest plays I've ever seen, and I got to be in it as well.
A verse drama set in the late Middle Ages, it abounds with beautiful language, interesting characters, wit, romance, and wisdom.
Some of the speeches are extraordinarily beautiful, such as the following:I seem to wish to have some importanceIn the play of time.
If not,Then sad was my mother's pain, my breath, my bones,My web of nerves, my wondering brain,To be shaped and quickened with such anticipationOnly to feed the swamp of space.What is deep, as love is deep, I'll haveDeeply.
What is good, as love is good,I'll have well.
Fry shines more as a verbalist than a dramatist.
Histalkiness is, really, next to Godliness.
C 1950, whenTS Eliot was also writing verse plays, there was anEliot-Fry vogue of "lit-drama" -- for a while.
This waspushed aside x Theatre of the Absurd and the Kitchen SinkSchool.
Fry's work reminds some of Shakespeare, but Iagree w those who refer to him as a verseful of Shaw.For he delights in contradiction, irony and paradox.
WithFry's imagery and lyrical wordplay, you really have toperk up your ears.
Even on the night of our last performance when the whole thing was as familiar to me as this keyboard under my fingers, I still cracked up.
And in the end, no, love doesn't change the world, but maybe we can draw it up over our eyes for a while and maybe we're allowed to take up space in the world, even on our darkest nights, even those of us who don't conform to the mean, even those who were come across instead of born, and even those who just wanted to be happy.
My copy is a bit wrinkled and teary from my recent divorce; but still one of my favorite plays and I'd jump at the opportunity to see it performed.I think probably the most apt description is Isiscaughey's:  A lovely story of two rather sad people who manage to save each other.  Which is really all that needs to be said, isn't it?
All very inconvenient, when you consider that young Alizon Elliot is arriving from the nunnery to meet her betrothed: slow, uninspiring Humphry, son of the Mayor - who is currently being petitioned by Thomas for a sentence and hanging.Things come to pass at a dance to welcome Alizon that night, where Thomas and Jennet pace it out, one wants to die, the other wishes to live, and the frivolous self-absorbed townspeople are making them both wait before they can discover their fates.This play is an absolute gem, I've read before that Fry's images lack symmetry, but I find the description of a castle 'draughty as a tree' absolutely delightful.
I have more than a passing interest in verse drama, so I find the success of this play very interesting.
(It had long runs on the England and the American stages in the 1950s.) The reason is simple: It is a piece of good theatre – interesting characters, excellent plot, suspense and surprise.For better or worse, though, it is a good piece of theatre despite its verse.
Fry is good at creating interesting, well-spoken characters using an expansive vocabulary.
I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys good drama.
One of my all-time favourites.
A book I checked out of the library because I saw it on the shelf & couldn't wait to get home & read (it was springtime).
Lyrical poetry, deep thoughts, a radical engagement with the Christian world-view (Mr Fry & I differ somewhat on conclusions but have much in common).
I can't quite extricate it from that point in my life (like, for example, Tartt's Secret History), but (unlike Tartt) I am glad to report that reading it again in my thirties reveals different truths in gossamer layers over the Swarthmore Ridiculon.
Fry writes a modern Shakespearean comedy, complete with two pairs of lovers, clownish twins and some May Day madness where everything mixed up is made right again. Excellent ensemble roles and beautifully written love poetry interspersed with his usual wit and intelligence. A good choice for a director with a great cast looking to show their stuff without reverting to the usual classics.
Exquisitely hilarious.
But whenever my thoughts are cold and I lay them against Richard’s name, they seem to rest on the warm ground where summer sits, as golden as a humblebee.” "Then if time and space have any purpose, I shall belong to it.
If not, if all is a pretty fiction to distract the cherubim and seraphim who so continually do cry, the least I can do is to fill the curled shell of the world with human deep-sea sound, and hold it to the ear of God, until he has appetite to taste our salt sorrow on his lips.” And now I'm crying at my desk again.
A gift from friends who would never give me something not worth my while.
I found this was hard to read in my everyday world, so I finally just set it aside until I had a concentrated bit of time to indulge.
I would relish seeing a production; I pictured it on stage as I read it.
In high school productions I was typically the "matron/housemaid" role and how I would love to be Margaret, the mother, in this play.
My thanks go to my friends, and now I am trying to find a book to recommend to them.
I think the idea of a comedy in verse might scare lots of people off, but Shakespeare wrote comedies in verse and they're still really popular.
There is a lovely young woman who villagers think used witchcraft to make a missing man turn into a dog - but of course she didn't.
There are other characters, a viol-playing cleric, am idiotic judge and his long-suffering wife, a couple of brothers, another sweet young woman looking for love and a hoard of angry villagers lusting for blood.
But the only two characters that count are the pseudo-murderer and the falsely accused witch.
A woman is to burnt for being a witch, and a man confesses to a killing in a bid for suicide by state intervention.
The town's authorities refuse to believe in his guilt, and refuse to believe in the woman's innocence.
The irony is not lost on the man or woman, who strike up a friendship that frustrates the would be executions.
There is a complex interplay of cross gendered roles; the woman to be burnt is an epitome of manly logic and science, whereas all the men are swallowed by emotion and illogic.
This was suggested to me by my acting teacher for a monologue and I am so glad she lent it to me.
Not only did I get a fantastic monologue out of it, but I loved the whole play.
Nicholas had me cracking up with his "murder" of his brother.
Thomas, who has decided he MUST be hanged and persistently petitions the judge throughout the play to hang him, is wonderful.
Very odd, very poetic, very set on dying, but oh so wonderful.
Jennet, who is accused of being a witch, comes in laughing at the absurdness of it all, so of course I was absolutely smitten.
Charmingly, satirically, hysterically comic short play in verse. The fun of having joined goodreads is to have a peek into books others have read. This was one I had not heard of before so I read it at the library today and had to control my laughter so as not to disturb other patrons. I learned that Richard Burton and John Gielgud (as well as Claire Bloom) played in this one on Broadway in 1950. If you can find it at your library, enjoy! Out of fashion though it may be, this play has some great lines.
I very much enjoyed this play. The language is delicious and the wit is sharp. The story ends a little silly, but that's alright, as the main characters are the depressed hopeless people who decide to live because they find love in each other, even if that doesn't change how the feel about how horrible the world is. Well-crafted with fun costumes. I actually think Playmakers might really enjoy this show.
Oh! This was so wonderful. Every line was a gem. Of course, that meant I got slightly blinded by the constant glitter.ALIZON Our father God moved many lives to show you to me.I think that is the way it must have happened.It was complicated, but very kind.Of course, it did suffer from the plague of plays - that is, everyone who fell in love did so in the space of five minutes. But what a fall!
I first saw this play on PBS in the 1980s with Richard Chamberlain in the lead. It's a comedy set in the 1400s and in the style of Shakespeare, but it was first performed in 1948. The main characters are a disillusioned soldier, a woman accused of being a witch, the local magistrate and his household.I love the language and the plot, as two people sick of the world find each other and love in the midst of absurdity.
My favorite part about this is something that happened in a production of it done at my university -- one of the characters "lights" a chandelier, which was rigged to light up one bulb at a time, as if they were proper candles. The play itself was nice, but as I was more involved with the technical aspects, my memories of it are of the colors and the costumes and the lights. It's a lovely story.
A roommate in college used to quote this play nonstop so eventually I had to find out why. When the book is somewhere handier I will throw a few choice quotes in here. I adore how expressive the author is with his words. The book is set in the 15th century and concerns a woman who is trying to avoid being burned as a witch and a man who wishes to be executed.
I read this play ages ago (it seems) because Dean mentions it in "Tam Lin". This is your typical British romantic play, where a thousand incredulous things are all happening at once complete with humourous miscommunication, and ends with an even number of happy couples. Thomas Mendip in particular is both a vexing and humorous lead character.
Best line ever (p.68) - "Surely she knows, if she is true to herself, the moon is nothing but a circumambulating aphrodisiac druinely subsidized to provoke the world into a rising birth rate - a veneer of sheerest Venus on the planks of time which may fool the ocean but which fools me not."
This was recommended to me by a dear friend, but I found it very difficult to get through. It may be better on stage than on paper.Act one drags a bit with a lot of background info, but by act three you are fairly invested in the characters.
A wonderful play, set in the middle ages, though it was written post World War II. A lovely story of two rather sad people who manage to save each other.This was referenced in Tam Lin, which is what brought my attention to it, but I truly enjoyed it for its own sake upon reading it.
Oh my god... what a fantastic play. This beauty has a disdain for the classic view of love and it looks at love as kind of willing torture. The characters are rich and rie and I mean, I just could not stop reading this thing. Such clarity in hyperbole. It's do damned special.
One of the first plays I read on my own, in high school. I don't remember how I came across it, but I loved it. I'm reading Alice Thomas Ellis's Unexplained Laughter now and just realized that her dialogue reminds me of Fry (and Shaw and Wilde). Lovely play, lovely language.
Strange, entertaining little play.
This play was so strange, and yet so fascinating. The dialogue was absolutely poetic, and I would love to see it performed live!
