https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18816.Problems_of_Dostoevsky_s_Poetics
Bu kitap bize Dostoyevski'nin edebi gücü ve özgünlüğünün kökenlerini mi gösteriyor yoksa Bahtin'den kitap nasıl okunur dersi mi veriyor ve aslında hangisi daha önemli kafamda deli sorular. Dostoyevski meftunları okur zaten ama edebiyatı, metin okumayı dert edinen herkese de tavsiye ederim.
Really, need I say more?After a few years away I'm working through all my Bakhtin books again.
Problems of Dostoevsky's Poetics is full of Bakhtin's big ideas: his basic theory of the polyphonic novel, the reasoning for why Doestoevsky is its chief practicioner, but also poetics and ideology in general and what we now refer to as Bakhtinian topics: dialogism vs.
But, in my view, and echoing the work itself, that mess is also a big part of its allure: ideas running amok are more ripe for assimilation and appropriation than a monologic system that is assembled brick by brick.
And like all philosophical arguments, one has to persevere through the plateau of abstractness and all the asides an argument can tangent off to, before returning to the conclusion of a 'point.' There is much to admire in Bakhtin's passion and interpretation of Dostoevsky's poetics.
It definitely helps to read the novellas mentioned above and the short stories before reading this treatise.
What fascinated me the most was how Bakhtin formalized – academically and philosophically – the style of speech and thought in Dostoevsky's characters.
As a reader of Dostoevsky, I know exactly what Bakhtin is getting at.
At least don't read this book until you've read enough Dostoevsky (if even possible) for pleasure first.
If you love Dostoyevsky this is a must read. Actually, if you love fiction at all, this is a must read. After Bakhtin you will still love it, but you will understand far better why.

Here he discusses his concepts of polyphony, heteroglossia and the dialogic, ideas which have a far wider application than only in Dostoevsky or the novel.Emerson's brief introduction and translation are both exemplary and make this text accessible without simplifying the complexities of thought inherent in Bakhtin's work.Since Bakhtin, we have transferred his ideas into other genres beyond the novel but it's worth going back to this as a starting point even so.
For anyone interested in literary voice, the socialised view of the word and language, and dialogism in a broad sense, this is essential reading.(Read April 2012)
Not just a fantastic system for reading Dostoevsky, but a brilliant paradigm for engaging any and all narrative. A key text for the Dostoevsky scholar!
Thank goodness for this, Bakhtin. Now I can revise that Dostoevsky paper with even more decency.
it was a very good book but unfortunately i cannot give it five stars because it seems that the author was confused. Dostoevsky did not write poetry.

Στο βιβλίο αυτό βρίσκουμε τις βασικές ιδέες του Bakhtin που κυριαρχούν στη θεωρία της λογοτεχνίας τα τελευταία 30 χρόνια (διαλογικότητα, πολυφωνία, καρναβαλικό στοιχείο κ.λπ.) στην εφαρμογή τους στο έργο του Ντοστογιέφσκι. Το πρόβλημά μου κατά την ανάγνωση ήταν μια αίσθηση νεφελώδους φλυαρίας, πολλά λόγια, επαναλήψεις και ταυτολογίες. Υπάρχουν μελέτες του Bakhtin πιο περιεκτικές και ευκολότερα προσπελάσιμες. Τέλος, η μετάφραση μάλλον έκανε το κείμενο ακόμα πιο "δύσκαμπτο", ενώ παρατήρησα και κάποιες ασυνέπειες (π.χ. η "κρυμμένη πολεμική" γίνεται στις επόμενες σελίδες "κρυφή πολεμική").
Beni farklı bir okur yaptığı kesin.
One's understanding of Dostoevsky is never complete without Bakhtin

I’ve finally finished this Would recommend this to every Dostoevsky’s reader, will make you comprehend more in depth his style and effect on the literary world.  Bakhtin as per usual a pure genius. That will take you on a tougher process to comprehend what he wants to express, confide you and show you the light. All in construction. Loved this hope I can do my presentation right... aah!♥️
Absolutely brilliant.
"in all the mirrors"
High-intellectual analysis of Dostoevsky's work.
Being a celebrated figure in literature critique area, Bakhtin's focused his analysis on the rendering of Dostoevsky's work instead of the content of his work.
Bakhtin in fact argued extensively in this book that something like "the thoughts of Dostoevsky in Crime and Punishment/the Idiot/the Demons/Brothers Karamazov" would totally lose track of the gist of this great writer: he created characters that has vivid humanity, not merely to his liking.
I have stocked up many discontents towards modern day psychoanalysis so I might just pour them out right here right now: Bakhtin never sought to deprive the dignity of individual by force-feeding them with prevailing social standards.
Nemalo me lecnuo zaključak Nikole Miloševića, pisca predgovora beogradskog Nolit izdanja ovog Bahtin
Türkçeye söyleşim olarak çevrilebilecek olan dialojism kavramını ele aldığı bu kitabından Bakhtin, dostoyevskinin yapıtlarını sokrates'den başlattığı bir geleneğin doruk noktasına oturtuyor. en basit ifadesiyle dostoyevskinin yapıtlarında biz birden farklı dünya görüşünü ama hiç biri bir diğeri üzerinde öne çıkmayan veya yazarın inandığından bağımsız olan düşüncenin daha kabül edilebilir olduğunu görüyoruz. bu yaklaşım eğer bir hakikat varsa ne bende ne sen de, senle ben aramızdaki söyleşimde vardır özet tümcesinde betimlenebilir.
For those interested in linguistics (parole), the chapter "Discourse in Dostoevsky" will be of some value. Here you will find an extended explanation on 'voice' and 'double voiced discourse'. This may give you discourse analysis tools (similar to those methods used by Jane Hill). The rest of book is interesting if you are a Dostoevsky fan.
The introduction by Booth itself is worth the price, it gives great insight into both Bakhtin and Dostoevsky.
my most useful reference source for writing academic articles
قرأت جزءًا منه .. جميل جدا
Talky.
probably the first bakhtin that everyone should read, though it's often glossed over infavor of the Rabelais text or the dialogic imagination text.
Монологическая речь, внешняя интенция, исповедь с лазейкой. Эх, где мои семнадцать лет.
Баси книгата...
Classic Bakhtin - polyphony and the unfinalizable self.
