https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270032.Seven_Years_in_Tibet
The other two men, after experiencing the hardship of travel with improper clothing, inadequate food supplies, and a nagging doubt about what life will be like once they do reach Tibet, decide to go back.
Their belief that the fly that lands on the rim of the rancid butter tea, that they like to drink, could be their grandmother causes Harrer no ends of problems when he is asked to build a movie theater for the Dalai Lama.
He becomes close to the Dalai Lama, instructing him in Western culture and the way the world works beyond the Tibetan borders.
Poţi călători în timp, citind istorie romanţată.
Poţi -în fine!- să vizitezi lumea întreagă, în detaliu, citind cărţi precum "Şapte ani în Tibet".E drept că a trecut mult timp de când am citit-o (să fie doi ani de-atunci?!), însă acum, când încerc să renunţ la a citi cantitativ (pentru că mi-am petrecut jumătate din viaţă citind, iar cealaltă jumătate văzând filme -şi astea...
This is a book that I bought way back in 1990. It was an excellent travel book and I purchased it because of my enjoyment of reading about life in Tibet (it always struck me as such an exotic place) and I was also very influenced by Buddhism at the time. It was so sad about the situation with China and the Dalai Lama.I must reread this.
Even when it is just a book purchase.The former owner's name seems to read : "Yee Yitathajisi" but I'm not sure, especially the small "s" in the last name.
His two small "s" in "Los Angeles" look like a regular "s" but somewhat written like the number five.Yee struggled with his English.
I've seen Japanese and Chinese writings but they're not squiggly-looking like this.When the second world war broke out, several German mountaineers were in India (which was then still under British rule).
I didn't until I've read this book (I thought Tibet was just a small, obscure settlement pearched atop a snowy mountain, like Baguio City).
I read this book many decades ago.
It was interesting.
However, I kept asking myself: What did Heinrich Harrer live on until he reached Lhasa after about two years?
He had no money.
He had no provisions.
He had no weapons to shoot animals to eat.
And while traveling, he, definitely, had no land to grow any food.
From what I remember, there were also no tales that he asked for or was granted hospitality by the inhabitants of the areas he passed.
I don't think that anyone will be able to survive on the scarce vegetation to be found in high elevations.
So what did this man eat?
Harrer doesn't go into a lot of detail about all the climbing and trekking his friend Peter and himself did and it's easy to skip over that accomplishment.
In a sad postscript written almost 50 years later Harrer describes how all that culture has been wiped away.
Not for the fact that Mr Pitt was better looking than him, but for the fact that thousands of people probably went to see the movie just to see Brad Pitt, and in so doing learn't something of Tibet and became aware of that countries plight.
Absolutely fascinating; it's a pity the prose was on the pedestrian side. One wonders what a Patrick Leigh Fermor or an Eric Newby would have made of the same material.
Heinrich Harrer raggiunse il Tibet durante la Seconda guerra mondiale fuggendo da un campo di prigionia inglese in India, a Dehra Dun, e fu costretto a lasciarlo quando, nel 1951, le truppe cinesi invasero il Paese della Neve.Sette anni nel Tibet descrive il fascino perduto di una cultura millenaria tanto diversa da quella occidentale poiché isolata e ancorata alle tradizioni lamaiste per secoli, trasmettendo al lettore un desiderio profondo di conoscenza di una terra proibita, di avventura ed esplorazione di nuovi mondi, ma anche di malinconica consapevolezza della distruzione di un paese libero, il cui appello al mondo è rimasto inascoltato negli anni.
Non ci sono parole per descrivere ciò che da allora è successo nel Paese della neve: un milione e duecentomila tibetani hanno perso la vita, il novantanove per cento dei seimila edifici sacri è stato distrutto."Questo libro insegna molto, consigliato a tutti.
This book, originally published in 1953, is an adventure classic that recounts Heinrich Harrer's 1943 escape from a British internment camp in India, his daring trek across the Himalayas, and his seven years in Tibet, coming to an end with the Chinese invasion.
Time and time again, the Nepalese were handy to have to do that which the Buddhist faith did not allow to be done in Tibet.And it bothered me that in sport events where it was determined that the Dali Lama must win, he of course always did win.
The book made no grand promises-- instead the author proposed to give me his notes plainly told about his journey through Tibet, a journey that began just prior to the second World War and ended a few years after it.
The author did not over-promise, and sticking to his world, early on, I found his writing to have a dry, clinical feel to it.
The book demonstrates that substance is better than style, and that in order to be a good writer one should live an adventurous life.
As Harrer says at the end of the book, “Wherever I live, I shall feel homesick for Tibet.” A beautiful sentiment simply stated!
Bản tiếng Việt (lấy tên Vùng đất thiêng Tây Tạng) cắt hết các đoạn nói về cuộc xâm lăng của Trung Quốc cũng như các tàn phá Tây Tạng sau đó, haizz
I especially appreciate this book because it provides a different perspective on the Tibet issue than the typical information that I read on the Chinese news sites (which, as stories relate to sensitive domestic issues in China are "hilariously" biased and not entirely distinguishable from when The Onion parodied Chinese news in 2009).
But it is precisely because Harrer was somewhat of an objective observer of Tibet, able to report it from a "western" perspective and therefore tells the story in a relatable way for many foreign readers, that this book remains a powerful case for Tibetan independence.
While at times the book did seem to drag - and it was clear that Harrar wrote this from a very personal perspective - he did an excellent job in detailing a lot of information about the land and the people of Tibet.
From the way Harrar wrote you can tell that he truly fell in love with the land and the people of Tibet and felt great sadness when the Chinese invaded in 1950 and took over.
If you are interested in the land of Tibet and the people and their culture - this is an excellent book to start with as an introduction.
He was scaling a mountain in the Himalayas when the British declared war on Germany.
Eventually he, and others, reached Tibet, which was neutral in the war.
Harrer and another escape were able, eventually, to make their way to the capital of Tibet.
Harrer became acquainted with the Dali Llama, before he had reached his maturity.
In fact, the Dali Llama asked Harrer to tutor him about the world outside Tibet.
In the book, Harrer not only describes his harrowing journey up the mountains from India to Tibet, but he also describes Tibetans, their religion, their festivals, and the beautiful country.
Un libro grazie al quale ho conosciuto e scoperto uno dei territori a mio avviso piú belli del mondo: il Tibet. Non ci sono mai stata, ma é come se oramai facesse parte di me. Non amo il freddo né la neve, ma amo quello che per secoli ha rappresentato, la pace e la spiritualità interiore. Purtroppo la minaccia cinese é arrivata fino al "tetto del mondo", ma se a ognuno che leggesse questo libro facesse lo stesso effetto che ha fatto a me, questo sarebbe uno dei testi per la pace nel mondo. Buona lettura!
All I got from this book is that Tibet in the 40’s kinda looked like the land around Lake Erie but with more jagged mountains.
What this all boils down to is, until Heinrich becomes buddies with the Dalai Lama in the last 40 pages, nearly nothing happens.
And Heinrich, don't tell me that you weren't the least bit jealous of your friend Aufschnaiter when he got all the praise.
And Heinrich, what job are you given?
And showing us how jealous you were could have brought this book from a 3 to a 5, easy.
While reading this I was reminded that until recently, perhaps even now in certain respects, Tibet was a feudal culture, which has its own forms of violence, oppresion, rigid social structure, etc.
It is a conservative, ancient society, containing all the ills that plague other civilizations.I really enjoyed reading this.
I still like the movie a lot, but the book is also a favorite now even though it is messy, unexpected and doesn't seamlessly conform to the dictates of a plotline.
While the writing style is somewhat dated and lacking, I still highly enjoyed the tales of Heinrich Harrer and his sojourn in Tibet. The settings are so well developed it allows you travel along with the adventures and the struggles.
This the second time that I've watched this movie and I've never got tired of it.
"Some books, like some mountains, are lonely and unrivalled peaks."
El estilo de Harrer, que se estrena como escritor en esta narración, es bastante egocéntrico, con datos sobre su fuerza física y mental que nos recuerdan la ridícula supremacía alemana (aunque vivió siete años en Tíbet no comprendió la humildad budista), sin embargo cuando los comunistas entran y Harrer abandona Tíbet se vuelve un defensor del budismo y de esa tierra que lo acogió con calidez.
Creo que este libro al igual que mi novela son justicia para todos los que fallecieron tan cruelmente en esa injusta invasión de hace apenas cincuenta años.
The wonderful things the writer saw, his exhilarating experiences, the people he meets, all seem like they're happening to us as a first person.Same applies to this travelogue.
There is quite less the world knows about Tibet, and this book is the first person account of a German mountaineer who escapes British prison in India during WWII and seeks shelter in Tibet.
His numerious encounters with Tibetan people, escapades from authorities and wonderful description of the Tibetan natural beauty and simple people, make you want to visit this place as well.
This is one of those books that reminds you of how much we, "in the modern world" take for granted.
It reads like what it is, an account of an unexplored world where we're much more engaged in what is happening in our life than the mythologies that we build up around it.
I had to take several pauses throughout my reading to stare at the passing landscape and allow myself to hear the wind and the prayer flags rustling in a world that I have never occupied.
There is another way to know what happened to Harrer during those years and that is to watch the movie. Much better than the book.
An oldie but still full of a lost time before Tibet was invaded by the Chinese. The writing is a bit dull but you have to pay homage to the author and his many talents that saw him an escape POW, mountaineer, traveller, teacher to the Dalai Lama, garden designer, civil servant, photographer and film maker (amongst many other achievements).
The author writes about his journey through Tibet and how he became friends with a teenage Dalai Lama.
The book ends with a sad note and leaves the reader with a sense of loss, for a very large percentage of Tibet as the author knew it is destroyed since the Chinese invasion of 1951.
The author truly is fortunate to have seen the Himalayas and the Roof of the World in their glory and to be a great friend with His Holiness for the rest of his life.
Btw, though the movie helped spread awareness around the world of the Tibetan cause, doesn't do justice to the book.
The narrator and his companions are fleeing from a British internment camp during the second world war, and are roughed up by the elements and humans alike.The second half of this book is the half that reached me as a reader and also as a person the most.
His ascension from poverty laden wanderer to what would soon become and influential player in the Dalai Lama and his court was what this novel truly should be admired for.Far from being a travel memoir, this books is a testament of human beings.
He becomes a tutor to the Dalai Lama.I enjoyed his marvelous descriptions of his first sights of Tibet.
Toward the end he also tells of the 1950 military takeover of Tibet by China and the Dali Lama and his government fleeing to India.
In the afterword, the author tells of the Dalai Lama coming to his 90th birthday party in Germany.
I had no idea how badly Tibet has suffered under Chinese rule.This book was first published in 1952 and apparently has sold millions worldwide.
I highly recommend this book, it is a fascinating read.
It is the beginning of his 7 years living among the Tibetan people and culminates in a remarkable relationship with the 14th Dalai Lama.
He only leaves as it becomes inevitable that the Red Army of China will invade Tibet and change the lives and culture of all that remain.
And he is saddened by that prospect and the knowledge that the 15 year-old Dalai Lama would never be able to "rule" his people as he also fled to India.
Harrar apparently remained friends with the Dalai Lama until his death in 2006.
Harrer, an Austrian, was a mountain climber/adventurer who the first person to climb the North Face/Wall of the Eiger Mountain in Switzerland in the 1930s.
He was in India to climb mountains when he was imprisoned by the English merely because his native language was German.
This book, originally published in 1953, is an adventure classic that recounts Heinrich Harrer's 1943 escape from a British internment camp in India, his daring trek across the Himalayas, and his happy sojourn in Tibet, then, as now, a remote land little visited by foreigners.
I did like this book and would recommend it if you can find it.
