https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13509131-a-proposal-to-cicely
"A Proposal to Cicely" is a short story written by Georgette Heyer very early in her career.
But still, it was extremely nice of Vic to share.)Cicely, a 1920's British flapper girl, is bored with everything, not least the frequent marriage proposals of her first cousin once removed, Richard ...
who is clearly a stand-up guy because he's an "athlete and amateur boxer." Boxers in Heyerland, amateur or otherwise, are always primo specimens of manhood, intelligent and generally good-looking, and it's invariably a mistake to turn down a marriage proposal from them.
2.5★I'm making allowances for GH only being about 19 or 20 when she wrote this. For such a young writer this is quite an accomplished period piece,with a well realised structure. And after WW1, everyone wanted to forget. I know that. But I'm finding it very hard to forgive this vapid line (among many vapid lines) from Our Heroine Cicely in this exchange; “Have you ever done a day’s work – hard, manual work – in your life?” demanded Cicely.“The complete park-orator. Four years in the trenches, t
2.5★I'm making allowances for GH only being about 19 or 20 when she wrote this.
For such a young writer this is quite an accomplished period piece,with a well realised structure.
And after WW1, everyone wanted to forget.
But I'm finding it very hard to forgive this vapid line (among many vapid lines) from Our Heroine Cicely in this exchange;
“Have you ever done a day’s work – hard, manual work – in your life?” demanded Cicely.“The complete park-orator.
Bright Young Thing???
Dim Young Thing, more like!I have to say though that Cicely Carruthers is a perfect twenties name!
3.5 stars ;)
A lovely, extremely short story. I think plot happens in the beginning of XX century. It is funny and romantic. I am no fan of short stories, I like full novels, but this piece is great, enjoyable. Just read it if you are Heyer's fan ;-) It takes you a launch break and you will have a nice day ;-)You can read it for free here: https://janeaustensworld.wordpress.co...
Short contemporary (1922) story. Probably only rates three stars because I can't bear to give Heyer anything less. This is her first published short story and it shows. However, a must read for the Heyer completest.
Probably the weakest Georgette Heyer story I've ever come across, but this was published when she was just 20, so very early in her career. I agree with Bookworm that this seems more like fan fiction than authentic Heyer, but it does end well, in the best Heyer tradition.
Easy to see why it has not been reprinted lately.
Short story by Georgette Heyer set in contemporary times (by which I mean contemporary to when it was written in the early twentieth century). Although not one of her best efforts, you can see the hint of future plots in this. Probably of interest to Heyer fans only. The text can be found here:http://janeaustensworld.wordpress.com...
A short story about a girl who doesn't know what she wants.Entertaining.
It's pretty obvious that this is very early in Georgette Heyer's writing career, before she'd truly settled into writing romance and historicals; in fact, this piece is contemporary for her, set in the 1920s.
Even the quality of the writing fails to come up to Heyer's usual standard.
The text of the story can be found in one of the top reviews here.
(I'll add a link to the details as librarian later, if it's permitted.) 1.5 stars rounded down to 1.
(I really do wish GR did half-stars.)
Good for the Georgette Heyer completist. A bit mediocre of a plot. Cute characters and animals, as usual for GH. (view spoiler)[Standard "knowing male rescues foolish female" was annoying." (hide spoiler)]It can be read for free here: https://janeaustensworld.wordpress.co...
My sister sent me this link, knowing what a fan of Georgette Heyer I am. My thanks to her, but this short story truly is awful. And I wish that Ms. Heyer had not had such a penchant for marrying off cousins to each other... it just feels a bit disturbing to me.http://janeaustensworld.wordpress.com...
This very short tale is a departure to what one may expect from Georgette Heyer.Can't say too much without risking spoilers, but it's sort of a love triangle type of story, featuring some good humorous moments.Nothing thrilling here, but I thought it was worthwhile checking out.
Too short to get more than one-dimensional characters or even really understand why Cicely changes her opinion about the proposal.
Meh.Didn't dislike it, exactly, but I wouldn't recognize it as G.Heyer.
Short but sweet :)
