https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2711.The_Riverside_Chaucer
A burlesque on popular romances of the time about knights and chivalry and three headed giants - rapidly cut off by the Host who says they don't want to hear such rubbish, do you have any alliterative verse or maybe a story in prose that's better?
Seems like not just a satire on the quality of the popular tales of the day but also a little self-mockery, having chosen to put the "worst" story into his own mouth - or is he saying, "Look, I'm really way better than this popular rubbish?"Personally, I like tales of knights and chivalry and three headed giants - but I do like them better in alliterative verse than in rhyme...The Tale of MelibeeDespite the valient defense in the Introduction, I found this pretty naff - it's a moral debate about revenge, justice and mercy that's predictable in general and boring in execution.
Even as a Shakespeare scholar, I would argue this, since there are several characters in Chaucer who are as if live: The Wif of Bath, the Pardoner, the Host, the Canon's Yeoman,and a half dozen others, at least.
The Host remarks how Chaucer as a pilgrim is staring at the ground while riding (shy?) and that he has a pot-belly like the Host himself.
As for Chaucer's superiority to all of English lit that follows, I would argue the same for Erasmus and H.S. education: Erasmus's Colloquiae, especially his Adulescens et Scortum, puts modern education books to shame.
This was a read for university.
For what it is worth, Chaucer has a sense of humor!
[Note: I haven't read ALL the stories.
Some.]However, I had to translate it myself as well as I was/am learning medieval English for university.
At least, how to translate and read it.
Even though this wasn't as difficult as Sir Gwain and the Green Knight as I have progressed in my medieval English, it was still a bit trying and stole some of the enjoyment of reading.
But this is a personal experience and not a criticism of Chaucer's work.
One of Chaucer's short poems, The Book of the Duchess, written to condole Chaucer's patron John of Gaunt after he lost is beloved wife Blanche, Duchess of Lancaster, is among the most beautiful I have ever read.
I'm finding it difficult to put in words, but my reading The Book of Duchess occurred at the right moment.
There was something about reading this poem a year after her tragic death that somehow mirrored the reading of this poem to John of Gaunt a year after the death of Blanche.
I think everyone can identify with Troilus's love-sickness in Book I.
As well as being the primary writer of his time and basically every English student's introduction into medieval literature, his poetry is so precisely metrical in a way that makes a natural flow easy to catch onto while reading.
There are plenty of allegorical dreams to be read about, which is almost kind of a trope for medieval literature; however, Chaucer's accounts are a lot less cryptic than something like Piers Plowman, which is basically the Inception of allegories.
So really, it all ultimately comes back to me saying that Chaucer is the backbone of medieval literature.
(Pardoner's Tale at 665-69).how friggin' great is that?More: "Namoore of this, for Goddes dignitee,"  Quod oure Hooste, "for thou makest me  So wery of thy verray lewednesse,  That also wisly God my soule blesse,  Min eres aken of thy drasty speche.
"Why so?" quod I, "why wiltow lette me  Moore of my tale than another man  Syn that it is the beste tale I kan?"  "By God," quod he, "for pleynly at a word  Thy drasty rymyng is nat worth a toord,  Thou doost noght elles but despendest tyme.
Chaucer is my love. Middle English is ridiculously hard for us Modern English-ers to read, but Chaucer is oh so worth it. I bought this for my Chaucer seminar, which focused on everything but the Canterbury Tales. Can I just say that everyone should read Troilus and Criseyde? No one knows about it but extreme English dorks (like myself :P ), but most scholars think it his greatest work. It's wonderful, and the characters will make you SO ANGRY! The men are so awful! So, my conclusion. Read Chaucer, please!
If you're interested, I recommend giving Chaucer a shot in the Middle English instead of going straight to a translation.
Additionally, if you speak just one language and it's English, what other 600-year-old works of world literature do you have a shot at reading?
Yes, it'll be slow going as you bounce between footnotes and some YouTube videos as you learn how to pronounce your new vocabulary, but Homer, Virgil, Dante are all closed to you in the original languages.As for the work itself, I came to it primarily interested in validating the claims of singular humanity made by the tweedy anti-modern moderns like Sirs Kenneth Clark and Roger Scruton.
I've read through The Canterbury Tales three times in their entirety, once in the Modern English and twice in Middle English, and each time the text produces something new and delightful, either on a microtextual level or a realization about the work as a whole.I won't write separate listings for them, but the four critical works that really helped open Chaucer up for me were:The Art of the Canterbury Tales by Paul Ruggiers (University of Wisconsin Press 1967)Chaucer and the French Tradition by Charles Muscatine (University of California Press 1964)Chaucer's Sexual Poetics by Carolyn Dinshaw (University of Wisconsin Press 1989)The Riverside Chaucer, however, also has his lesser known, but beautifully written, Book of the Duchess, the hagiographic Legend of Good Women, the dreamlike Parliament of Fowls, and much much more.In the interest of full disclosure: I haven't yet read his Troilus and Criseyde, but would like to get to it some day.
This book was the backbone to a Chaucer course I have recently completed.
This collection contains all you'll need from Chaucer's poetry, to the ever-famous Canterbury Tales, and more.
I found that although I loved the tales, Chaucer's poetry claimed a special place in my heart.
As an educated and nobleman who was in relation with the aristocracy, he deliberately chose to write in the Middle English language.
This work is entirely in Middle English, and requires much detangling, but is so very worth it.
His work will leave your world-view a little broader, and your hope for humanity, a little stronger.
I remember when Professor Savoia told us this was, and I believe still is, the only complete collection of Chaucer's opus, I hurried to buy this tome, and did not think I would ever read it all, but, it looks, years on, many, to be honest, only a few 'minor' poems still elude me.In terms of structure, there is as much as you can expect in a single volume collection of a pretty prolific poet; a general introduction, a rather detailed exposition of Chaucer's language, introductions to the major works, notes at the end.
All compacted in one 'manageable' volume.

Okay, so this is THE book for Chaucer studies.
However...and this is a big however...it is NOT a reader-friendly edition.
The way the footnotes are set up is completely asinine, in my opinion.
This is a great edition for Chaucer scholars who have been reading Chaucer for decades and know the stories well and read Middle English just as easily as they read the newspaper.
For people not in those categories, this is not the ideal edition.
Look for an edition that gives definitional glosses out to the side of each line rather than at the bottom of the page.
one of the Top three books on my shelves that I will grab on my way out if the house catches fire.
If you're looking for some Chaucer, this is the best, most comprehensive collection of his work. If you're not looking for some Chaucer, well, then this book would just be a silly choice.
Read for EN2003: Mediaeval and Renaissance Texts, 2010 - 2011We had to read 'The Miller's Tale' and 'The Franklin's Tale' for our course.
'The Franklin's Tale' was much more interesting, especially with all of the unanswered questions and comparisons to romantic literature that can be made.
I did find them kind of difficult to read, but I found reading them in a Scottish accent helped.
Despite being born and raised in Scotland my accent is rather boring, but I've heard enough broad ones to imagine it in my head).
Full confession: I haven't read the entire thing. I have read most of it. Yes, it's in Middle English. Yes, it is awesome. Also, you totally feel accomplished once you've read a good chunk of it. Makes you feel all hardcore and stuff. Chaucer is the mad note.
Completely edited with the attitude, 'Well, psh, if you don't know what 'scarpenfradish' means then too bad, NO GLOSS FOR YOU. However, we will happily tell you that 'wyf' is 'wife'. Neener Neener.'Chaucer rocks, though.
This is the greatest edition of one of the greatest authors. Perhaps Shakespeare is greater. Perhaps.Chaucer's ability to capture the variety and earthiness of human life is unparalleled. He is the poet of human nature.
Full disclosure: I skipped the longer translations from other writers.
This is an amazing edition, my father owns this copy and I am so jealous!
Textbook for a Chaucer class in college
I've only read parts, but I love Chaucer. It's hard to read, but it's worth it. I love his characterizations!
A brilliant edition that really helped me get to grips with Chaucer.
Most of Chaucer’s material did not originate with him; rather, Chaucer used literature available to him and adapted the stories for his own purposes, translating and rewriting them into Middle English poetry.
The Riverside Chaucer also includes: Troilus and Criseyde, The Legend of Good Women, An ABC, Anelida and Arcite, A Treatise on the Astrolabe, and other poems possibly composed by Chaucer.OrganizationThe text presents all of Chaucer’s writings in Middle English, most of which is footnoted throughout.
OverallWhile not many people will run out and buy an expensive book mostly in Middle English, The Riverside Chaucer is considered the most complete and well-annotated text of Chaucer’s work.
General prologueFragment VII
Well, having read, in Middle English, Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales, The Parliament of Fowls, The House of Fame, his translation of Boethius's The Consolation of Philosophy (titled "Boece"), and Troilus and Crisseyde, I must say the phobia was nothing but a childish delusion.
One of the many revelations I had in spending a month reading the double-columned, small-type, extra-thin pages was that Chaucer can be FUNNY.Absolon wants to kiss Alison who's a rich carpenter's wife.
And since he's the "Father of English Literature," it is worth the time to read him in order to understand how later writers were influenced by him.
Chaucer rules; this book sucks.
This book is a classic case.This book is a chore in every sense: to buy, to carry, to read, to cite.
No consumer would choose this book of their own free will.
For the cost, you could buy Chaucer's works as a multi-volume set instead (think Norton Critical Editions).
Since when do colleges care about the cost of textbooks?
What about this book is convenient?
You're gonna buy this big-ass book and you're gonna like it.
You will never read this book after college anyway so who cares.
Reading Chaucer in the original Middle English is a monumental chore; I certainly don't recommend it to the faint of heart or the dictionary-phobic.
The Parliament of Fowls is a good read too, and a good pair with the Tales (both address Chaucer's feelings about the hierarchy of social classes).
Reading Troilus and Criseyde was a nightmare: if you want to read Chaucer and enjoy it, stick with the Tales and the Fowls.
I won't lie and say that I read everything in here in the Middle English.
The rating is partially due to the quality of the book (physically, it's one of the nicest looking books I have seen) and the critical material that is also contained within.
Reading the stories without context, I would likely rate them a 2 or 3, but Chaucer deserves some respect considering the time period of their composition.
Very clever for him as somewhat of a court figure to manage some of the bawdy tales here by putting them in the mouths of characters telling stories, and some of his recurring motifs are cause for speculation.
