https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14288998-into-the-still-blue
Me, all excited for this book:Me when I see "Expected publication: 2014"
Third Time Read Review   SPOILER-FREE REVIEW He looked back, still walking, and pressed a hand to hisheart. This is the third time I read this trilogy and thankfully, my feelings are exactly the same as the first and the second time I read it. I had so much fun reading this trilogy and I have binge read it for the past few weeks, so it's kind of hard for me to leave the world of this trilogy. I feel so attached to the trilogy. To the plot. To the characters. Basically everything and every time
I felt like the book itself punched me in the gut and said " MUAHAHAHAHA HOW DOES IT FEEL?" I don't know how many times my eyes got teary or even cried or even laughed out loud while I was reading this trilogy.
This trilogy always makes me feel a lot of emotions and no matter how many times I read it, I always feel attached to the characters.
Like we have the same mind and God, I love Perry so much and I'm so relieved that my feelings toward him doesn't change, even though this is the third time I read it.
12/31/13:I will miss terribly this series, this last volume was something so awesome. It was a beautiful yet painful way to end my bookish year. And Veronica, feel free to write some other novellas, I wouldn't mind. Something involving Roar'd be great.January 2o13:So... dear Veronica, I'm here waiting agonizing for this book, y'know. What about write and publish, like, 32352 novels about Roar in the meantime? They'd help a lot. Let me know.I'm here.Waiting.
Actual rating: 4.5/5 Unstoppable Stars They had brought Dwellers and Outsiders together, and that was how it would stay. Before I talk about the book, I just want to say that when it comes to Perry, I can't stop thinking about Chris Hemsworth the whole time because of his appearance and body figure. Don't you agree he's the perfect role for him?As the title indicates, Into the Still Blue is the last one of this series and apparently, the characters will find the Still Blue eventually. Since the
Even though I know there will be steep sacrifice if Perry and Sable's tribes decide to break through the thick Aether and start a new leaf, the actual feeling is surreal when it was made.
(view spoiler)[He appeared tagging along Roar in the woods and then was captured because of some advantages for the Sable, and later he made the sacrifice for everyone's good, summoning the Aether to create a crack so that Perry and Sable's people could get through into the Still Blue.
I posted my official review on Tor. But, seriously. Just everything about this book is made of win, guys.Oh, and Veronica Rossi is a goddess of amazing genius who I adore with complete abandon. Thank you so much for Perry, Aria and Roar. I'm so sad their amazing story is over!
*Note: all the teasers we provide are from the Advanced Readers Copy of the book and may be subjected to changes upon publishing. (Update: 01/06/'14) He leaned down, bracing his arms on either side of her, his lips soft as they kissed a trail from her mouth to her ear. “What I was trying to say,” he whispered, “is that I see you in everything. There isn’t a word for you that means enough, because you’re everything to me.”“Perfect words,” she said, her smile wobbling with emotion. “Magical.”He l
There isn’t a word for you that means enough, because you’re everything to me.”“Perfect words,” she said, her smile wobbling with emotion.
She looked from the door to him, fear turning her to stone and rendering her mute....
Roar has a tattoo along his arm/shoulder and you get to see it.
*(on Epic Reads's BLOG)Veronica reads a scene from Into The Steel Blue on Epic Reads live chat (a sexy scene!!) - watch the video: HERE...“I know.
Read the rest of this scene on the Blog
Small Teaser:Peregrine has a falcon tattoo across his back, but did you guys know that Roar has a Marking too?
My reaction to this third and final book was so completely unexpected that I've tried several times over the past couple of months to get into it.
But, after trying at least ten times to read this book, I've had to put it aside indefinitely.
I was finding it so dull that I started skim-reading.What happened??
I enjoyed Under the Never Sky and I absolutely loved Through the Ever Night.
The characters I love felt flat and uninteresting...
I found myself unable to care about Roar and Perry's grief and I couldn't care what would happen or where this book was going.
PLEASE HAVE ROAR ON THE COVER PLEASE PLEASE OH PRETTY PLEASE.EDIT 6/20: No Roar but still OHMYGODTHEPRETTINESS.
Veronica Rossi is officially one of my favorite authors.
Every single one of the books in this series has been absolutely PERFECT.
I cried (along with Perry and Aria).
Perfect conclusion for a perfect series.
The only bad thing I can say about the Under the Never Sky series is that it is over.
I'm going to miss Roar and his jokes.
Aria and her awesomeness.
I'm going to miss Soren and his hilarious mean retorts.
He's one of my favorite heroes EVER.
I love you.The story was perfect.
Read this book NOW, people.
And if you haven't read the series...
And I am usually not against PDA, I even like them as long as there's a bit of moderation and enough common sense to understand where to draw a line and restrain oneself.
And I strongly feel that (view spoiler)[Perry's death would only have improved things (hide spoiler)].•I would like to add something about the characters, but as I have already explained, Aria and Perry seem to exist purely in relation one to the other, and all the others are little more impressive than that.
No one really brought me to care.•I liked that (view spoiler)[Cinder's sacrifice
Full series reviewUnder the Never Sky review (book 1)Through the Ever Night review (book 2)I fell in love the way you fall asleep; slowly, and then all at once-John GreenThe best feeling is when something takes you by surprise.
I never expected to fall in love with this series the way I have.
I fell for the way he cared and fought for his tribe, for his need to survive and come through on his promise that they would all make it out alive.
I fell for his all consuming love for Liv and the friendship he strived for with Aria.
“We all have the potential to do terrible things. But we also have the potential to overcome our mistakes.”3.5/5 starsI don't have much to say about it. I loved Under the Never Sky, I enjoyed Through the Ever Night and I liked Into the Still Blue.It was a satisfying finale, though I'd have been happier with a little more action. The story was too predictable, with no big surprises.Find more of my books on Instagram
Die Reihe war sooooooo gut! So so so so so so gut!
Absolutely amazing conclusion to the series. I'm definitely going to be stuck on this book for a while. It gave me so many more reasons to love the series and to call it my favorite. I'm happy but at the same time I want to cry.PS: the last acknowledgment was really sweet and made me tear up. (:----This book is too far away D:
I recommend Into The Still Blue.Through the Ever Night is much better IMO.
Still, better ending than I thought possible for this series.
Although compared to Reached, it's more quick paced; and compared to Champion, it has more swoon moments.The best thing about this finale is that Aria and Perry did not waste time.
Perry is more outspoken, and more confident as the Tides blood lord, and Aria's partner.But. But.Roar's character was a sore thumb.
Since I first met Sable in Through the Ever Night with Roar and Liv, I wildly anticipated his meeting with Perry.
Into the Still Blue was an amazing conclusion to a series I will hold dear to my heart!
Now that he has Hess working with him and all his resources I wondered if Perry and Aria would be able to prevail.
Every time Perry and Aria were together my heart raced because of the electricity of their connection.
There isn’t a word for you that means enough, because you’re everything to me.”*Both Perry and Aria were strong and courageous on their own, and I like that their relationship didn’t diminish that.
This has been one of my favorite YA series to date, and I look forward to whatever Veronica Rossi has in store for us next!
If you feel like reading dystopian series is like reading Hunger Games all over again with just few twists and turns, I suggest you read this Series to give you a fresh feel on dystopians. Plus Aria and Perry's love story is totally amazing and Roar reminds me so much of one of my favorite characters- Kenji of Shatter Me series!!! :)
*4.5 ELECTRIFYING STARS*"There is no way forward that isn’t through pain.”Aaahhh, this was a great conclusion to yet another epic book trilogy that I really liked!Even though I enjoyed this series immensely, I just couldn't give this 5 stars. It just didn't touch me as deeply as some other book trilogies out there.. *cough*  Daughter of Smoke and Bone  *cough*This whole book was really fast-paced and didn't bore me for even a second! Sometimes it felt a bit rushed in my opinion, but maybe that's
*4.5 ELECTRIFYING STARS*"There is no way forward that isn’t through pain.”Aaahhh, this was a great conclusion to yet another epic book trilogy that I really liked!Even though I enjoyed this series immensely, I just couldn't give this 5 stars.
It was really well executed though and I couldn't be happier with the ending!Overall, I really enjoyed these books and I'm totally going to read them again someday!
After Reading:Series Review can be found at Thoughts of a Hopeless (Book) Romantic.4.5 starsAlthough I enjoyed Through the Ever Night more, Into the Still Blue is still undeniably a great time with as a tense conclusion to the series from start to finish. I cheered a little too loudly at certain deaths. And when Aria beat Kirra up.***************************************************************Veronica Rossi is a master at title names. First:Under the Never SkySecond:Through the Ever NightThird: Into the Still BlueEEEEKKKKK!!!!!!
“What I was trying to say,” he whispered, “is that I see you in everything. There isn’t a word for you that means enough, because you’re everything to me.”ExcUsE mE WhiLe i CrY fOreVeROmg this book was PERFECTION, I seriously couldn't have asked for a better ending! I absolutely love this books and I'm so sad the series it's over! Aria, Perry and Roar will always have a special place in my heart!❤Definitely one of my all time favorite series ever! So glad this was my first read of the year!!
“What I was trying to say,” he whispered, “is that I see you in everything. There isn’t a word for you that means enough, because you’re everything to me.”ExcUsE mE WhiLe i CrY fOreVeROmg this book was PERFECTION, I seriously couldn't have asked for a better ending! I absolutely love this books and I'm so sad the series it's over! Aria, Perry and Roar will always have a special place in my heart!❤️Definitely one of my all time favorite series ever! So glad this was my first read of the year!!
You find yourself transported into its pages and I love that feeling.
A side to his character that shows how much he’s grown or in this case, how much he’s experienced.This one was one page turner, and I just loved the ending.
At one point, it felt like it did end, but you realize there’s more pages so that was a rare treat.
Usually books just end in an instant without any more to go on.
Not in this case, because we get to see what is to come for their future.I’m sad this trilogy has ended, but I’m also wanting more from it.
That I sometimes want to hug them and punch them and throw them into the wolves and hope that they won't come back leading them.
And the scene where Perry was taking of his pants then Aria entered the room was utterly hilarious.
I don't want u to be like me who is always curious and do not follow this.
:((( I AM STILL FUCKING SAD AND ANGRY THAT CINDER DIED AND REEF.
Sure, he acted like a jerk at like the beginning of book two but I don't care!
I AM MOURNING FOR THE DEATH OF THEM!!!!!!!!And I also kinda felt sad that Hess died!
I loved this but a character deserved better 😭😭. I'm gonna miss my babies! This is the first series in a while that I have completed! Most series these day annoy me so much that I don't continue.RTC
*Spoilers for previous books*Into the Still Blue was an action packed, stunning conclusion! And just like the two previous books, this story was an emotional journey. Torture, love, sacrifice, it honestly felt like my heart would stop beating at times. Even while they were strategizing, since the risks they were willing to take felt monumental. This series has easily become one of my favorite dystopian series ever, and I can't recommend it highly enough! Why was it so hard to bring together the
And just like the two previous books, this story was an emotional journey.
Torture, love, sacrifice, it honestly felt like my heart would stop beating at times.
Perry, Aria, Roar, Soren, Brooke and Jupiter.
“If we get to the Still Blue,” Soren said, “we should look at how to make more people like you, Aria.” She laughed.
The decisions and sacrifices he made, I'm so proud of him, even if I still can't talk about it.Roar - I never thought I'd find two book boyfriends in a story.
I will never be able to get him out of my head.Soren - That dweller pulled me in, no matter how hard I fought it.
The trilogy-ending curse has been broken. Now I get why it took me 3 tries to finally buckle down and read Into the Still Blue. The final installment was good in its own right, but it was very different in execution. I had been expecting one thing, and when I got something else, I think I balked at it without realizing. Once I got over the fact that the character-driven vibe of the past two books wasn't going to be as strong of a factor here, I settled in to enjoy the one thing that I always sa
Now I get why it took me 3 tries to finally buckle down and read Into the Still Blue.
The final installment was good in its own right, but it was very different in execution.
Once I got over the fact that the character-driven vibe of the past two books wasn't going to be as strong of a factor here, I settled in to enjoy the one thing that I always say YA sci-fi books need more of : actual sci-fi.
Such a fantastic ending to a phenomenal series. The characters have been through so much and gone through so much development. They remained true to themselves though, and it is so amazing. I just can't rave about this series enough!I love this world, it's so creative and interesting. I also felt like there were no plot holes and every question was answered :)I read this book so quickly, I couldn't stop! The writing flows so nicely and is so intriguing. Read this series!
Just Downloaded my ARC!!! EDIT:         PERRY!!    I cannot even form words for how much I loved this book! It was so good! I loved the first two books in this series soo much, and this book was no exception. It was full of action like the previous book, though there wasn't as much of a romantic aspect, it was still there and strong. I love Perry and Roar and Aria. I thought for a second or two that I would die at the ending, but I managed to make it through. I loved every single word! I was tra
I cannot even form words for how much I loved this book!
I love Perry and Roar and Aria.
I thought for a second or two that I would die at the ending, but I managed to make it through.
I loved every single word!
It was a truly amazing end to a wonderful dystopian series.
I didn't think I could like Aria's character any more, but somehow Rossi managed that as well.
Some of her confidence is taken away at the end of TTEN and she has to find a way to work through it, for the good of everyone.
Are you looking for an entertaining dystopian trilogy that doesn't get progressively worse with each book?
Then look no further!
The Under the Never Sky trilogy might be exactly what you're looking for!
The story itself isn't the most original and follows the general recipe for YA dystopias, plus, the story becomes pretty angsty at times, but all in all, I think that this trilogy is worth your time and I'd definitely recommend it!
And as a last instalment does, Veronica Rossi adds to this mix with some heartbreak, second chances and sacrifices.Our two main characters, Perry and Aria were both fantastic narrators and have both come so far.
Veronica Rossi creates such authentic and three dimensional characters, they really cling onto you and never let go even once the story has ended.Along with Perry and Aria, there’s also the beloved Roar.
I wanted a better climax.Even though the ending was weaker than I had wanted it to be, Into The Still Blue was still a wonderful last instalment, saying a last goodbye to our favourite characters.
