https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16265.Babycakes
This one is the best in the series THUS FAR!
but before that gets to be a complete black cloud it provides a background that can only be improved with color and comedy, all of which Mr. Maupin bestows in huge dollops!
And: what is it with his characters always getting spirited away, eh?
At least one character in the book is always away having his/her own brand of adventures in an altogether different climate, in some other such city.
Michael's escapade in London is perhaps the best strand of narrative witness so far: bittersweet, poignant.
I have never been a fan of Mary Ann. Actually I don't understand WHY everyone likes her. Doesn't matter. In this sequel she MAY be overdone. WTF?! How someone COULD come to SUCH a STUPID idea for such a SERIOUS problem?! But I can't help myself. The series is sooooo entertaining that I have no other option as to go on with it.
Between the previous book and Babycakes, Armistead Maupin realised that he couldn't keep writing about gay life in San Francisco as if AIDS hadn't happened.
It's a book about the transition from youth and innocence and adventure to adulthood, with the attendant gravity, ambiguity, strain, pain, and confusion.In Babycakes Maupin also starts to write about the inner emotional life of gay men with more depth, pathos, and authority than he did before.
(The scene where Mona learns about Jon's death is a good example of a moment that would have been ruined by the imposition of an arbitrary chapter boundary.)With Babycakes, the Tales of the City books rise majestically from being frivolous fun to being important works.
Denn der einstige Bürgerrechtsanwalt ist immer noch Kellner und hat auch noch einen fiesen Kollegen an der Backe, während Mary-Anns Karriere immer steiler nach oben geht.Gleich zu Beginn gelingt ihr, dank ein wenig Unterstützung von DeDe, ein Interview mit der Queen und dann zieht sie als nächsten Coup auch noch den heimlich abgemusterten Funker der königlichen Yacht an Land.

Oh my heart. I had forgotten how terrible and wonderful this installment was.
I've loved Maupin until this installment, and I'm not going to stop reading the Tales of the City series.
Most of the novel actually surrounds Mary Ann and Brian's increasingly dysfunctional relationship.
The turns in this narrative are either downright heavy-handed or generally unbelievable.I'm going to continue reading the series because I'm not one to surrender, but I'm really hoping the next one downplays Brian and Mary Ann, forgets about Mona again, and finally reintroduces D'or as more than a background figure.
Readers must remember the times...Reagan is president, casual marijuana use is usual, at least with the Barbary Lane folks, and transgendering is really pretty rare.The setting here is both SF and London, as one of the Barbary Lane dwellers -- Michael Tolliver -- trades apartments for a time with a Brit who decided to abandon ship for an extended stay when the Queen visited SF.A significant story line for the heterosexual couple -- Mary Ann and Brian -- is the problems they have conceiving a child.The "Tales of the City" series has now grown now to nine novels and the characters have aged appropriately.
By that I mean, it reads like a full concept in a way that the other ones didn't.
The previous three books read more like a series of events in these really interesting people's lives.
Overall, Babycakes is the most somber of the books (so far), but since this is Maupin, that's still a far cry from a tearjerker.
I really enjoyed this one, and I get the sense that he was wrapping up a lot of things from the first half of the series.
If you liked this, make sure to follow me on Goodreads for more reviews!
First, Alan Cumming was the narrator of the audio and he did a fantastic job.
I loved his different voices.
I also liked the writing.
The descriptive quality was right up my alley.
I enjoyed that part.
And the humor was great, but I have to say I don't think I "got" it sometimes.
This was a light and fun read.
It was hard to take the story lines seriously because they were so exaggerated.
I think I would have liked a more serious thread included somewhere about the LGBT community.
But this was nicely written and I liked the characters too.
I've only read the second book and this one, so I probably have some lack of understanding, but I have to admit, I liked the 2nd one better. What I liked about it was its freshness and humor. In this one, the background is darker, Mouse (and I can understand why of course) is not as spicy as he used to be, everyone seems more depressed and the plot was less interesting.
The plot lines can be preposterous, but that's part of the charm of this series and the characters are fascinating. In the audiobook, Alan Cumming voiced all the American women a little screechy and hard to differentiate, but he did a marvelous job with the British Isles inhabitants. I am eating these up like popcorn.
I finished this on the plane to New York- so it was perfect to get into the American spirit. Despite a huge chunk of it being set in London! Good fun as usual, just when I thought I had cleverly predicted a plot ending, Maupin pulled the rug from underneath me.
There are fewer characters in this book than the previous ones, and the storyline has expanded to across the pond. Some interesting developments here but also what seems to be some big dangling issues which hopefully are dealt with in the next book.
Blah blah homonormativity
Much improved from the previous one, even with Mary Ann turning severely irritating. Mouse breaks my heart - his storyline was especially well done.
Michael is grieving the death of his lover, Jon and is obsessed with his one-time friend Mona who has disappeared from his life (this is relevant for how the plot unfolds).I have to say the amount of queer characters in this book enchanted me, usually I only get to read books where heterosexuality is normal and the overwhelming majority.
I hated it and loved it at times and I don't like that.Some things I hated about this book: Brian doing coke.
Thank God, because that means Michael can still be my favorite character.The end of this book and the beginning of this book were what let me like it still.
This book had longer chapters and I had to get used to it, but I dealt with it.I gotta say, because the ending was good and we got to see some good characters in this story again I will give it a five, but this book is on thin ice.
I originally read the 4th instalment in the Tales of the City series in the eighties and I although I've re-read the first three volumes many times, I've always skipped this one.
Including contemporary issues has always been one of the strengths of the series.
Unfortunately, some of the plotting and wild co-incidences detract but it's good to be back with the familiar characters and Maupin's central message that families can be a group of friends (rather than just biological) is as seductive as ever
Few writers can capture an era the way Maupin does, and his books address subjects that other people didn't get around to noticing for far too long.
I expected this series to get bleaker and more somber as it moved from the heyday of the 70's to the devastating 80's.
What I did not know to expect was that I would be reading the first novel to address the AIDS crisis, and the best entry in the series thus far since the first one.
People die.
This is a very, very good book.
I feel like you can tell time has passed in terms of what the writing showed.
Still the same style, but the times changing showed.
This was going to get 5 stars, but I really wasn't a fan of the Brian-Mary Ann story in the second half.
The Tales of the City books are always faintly soap opera ish but in a sort of light hearted, charming way and this just felt a bit more obnoxious and really out of character for Mary Ann (who, yes, has changed a lot from her prude days but...it felt like too much).
“It’s past your bedtime, why are you still up reading?”“Hi Mum, I am not twelve anymore, I’m forty-four for God sake!”“Staying up late does nothing good to your health.
forever.”“I know that, Mum.”“As long as you are under my roof, you will abide by my rules, now back to bed and switch off that light”“ But Mum this fourth novel from Mr Maupin is getting more and more exciting and I feel so warm in the arms of the tenants of 28 Barbary Lane, especially Mrs Madrigal.
Can I read one more chapter, please?”Mum smiled but said nothing and she shut the door.
The lights are only switched off before dawn.
A friend and I decided to trade some books, and he chose to loan me two of Armisted Maupin's later novels, Babycakes and Significant Others. Since I had read Maupin's first two novels about the Barbary Lane gang, it was like reuniting with old friends. Only problem, these turned out to be old friends whom I no longer care about. Especially Mary Ann. I made it through Babycakes, but returned Significant Others when the first chapter was about none other. Goodbye old friends.
A fun and heartfelt read as always, with an enjoyable American-in-London setup that doesn't romanticize the UK.My only caveat is that while I enjoyed the wacky baby-making plot arc, the resolution throws a minor character under the bus to further the arc of our main characters, in a manner that I found distasteful.Read this in print, but apparently Alan Cumming narrates the audiobook(!)
This was one of my favorites in the series so far, and an important book as it was the first to mention AIDS in the early years of the epidemic. Maupin really develops the depth of the gay characters while still managing to beautifully weave together the misadventures of the Tales crew we’ve come to know and love.
My least favorite of the series, but still love the characters (and the writing style) way too much to rate the book lower than 4 stars. That said, hoping the next book of the series dwells a little more on the area of San Francisco (versus London), as the historical aspect is yet another huge piece of what made me fall in love with this series to begin with.
The stories are getting lavish and the characters are exploring outside their world on Barbary Lane. AIDS is mentioned but the horror that will engulf the gay community has only just started. Babies are being made, are given away, and become a focus in the novel. It's new beginnings for everyone.
Always nice to visit old friends ❤
Alan Cumming is the perfect narrator for this.
Four stars because it wasn’t quite as strong as the others, but still very enjoyable.
