https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9717.The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being
"The dance seemed to him a declaration that her devotion, her ardent desire to satisfy his every whim, was not necessarily bound to his person, that if she hadn't met Tomas, she would have been ready to respond to the call of any other man she might have met instead." Kundera brilliantly portrays how simple things like our past, our country, images, family – even metaphors, can affect our psyche and major life decisions.
That's how this novel feels.If I'm to give a book five stars, it needs to affect me in some profound ways -- it needs to change me, at least a little.
Repetition!Repetition Kundera– Metaphor!But I'm just a Prague boy and many women love meHe's just a Prague boy from a Czech familyFlair is his prose from this virtuosityEasy come easy go will you let me goBohemia!
What does this mad myth signify?In two sentences, the very first two, Kundera not only manages to break several writing rules of style (an exclamation mark, followed by a direct address to the reader being the most obvious), but he also succinctly sums up one of the most challenging philosophical concepts, yet is wise enough to address it on its own terms: as a “mad myth.”From the earliest possible chance, the author is telling us that he is indeed an intellectual, that he writes energetically, playfully, and that serious Ideas with the full timbre basso profundo tolling out that capital “I” are the very pith and marrow of novels and are not to be stuffed, labeled, and set up high on a shelf reserved for great thoughts too refined and delicate to mingle among the common rabble of characters and dialogue and action.Needless to say, this is a heady mix, the kind of thing to go straight to a recent college graduate with literature and philosophy on the brain.
Kundera merely uses plot and characters as tools or examples to explain his philosophy about life, and that is what this novel is all about.
Kundera's characters seem to searching for an elusive something, trying to find that perfect place in life where they would want to live forever.
"We can never know what we want, because, living only one life, we can neither compare it with our previous lives nor perfect it in our lives to come." Kundera speaks of the irony of human life.
لا يوجد وصف حاضر في ذهنيلا توجد كلمات تسعفنيأشعر بالعجز التامكلما ارتأيت مفتاحا مناسبا للكتابة عن هذه التحفة خذلني قلميأرتبك وأتحير وأتلعثموأصمتوأصمت كثيراأولم يقولوا"والصمت في حضرة الجمال جمال"تعلمني الرواية-نعم أقول تعلمني لا علمتنيلأنها لاتزال للآن في دميتعلمني أن أتواضع كثيراأن أتعلم رؤية العالم بطريقة جديدةبروح جديدةأن أعود كائنا بدائيا يفتح عيونه بدهشةويتعرف على الخطوط،،الألوان،،الأصواتكل شيء جديد ومبهر بعيون كونديراسأعود بعد قراءتي الخامسة ربما ربما أستطيع أن أكتب شيئاأما الآنفلا شيء سوى مزيد من الصمت والانغماس بكليتي في متعة أن تقرأ معجزة روائية
ΚΟΥΝΤΕΡΑ ΣΕ ΑΓΑΠΑΩΚαι θα σε αγαπάω απο δω και πέρα είτε με την αγάπη που βρίσκεται στο πεδίο της βαρύτητας,είτε με την αβάσταχτη ελαφρότητα στη ρευστότητα του κόσμου.
Η Τερέζα μια συνειδητοποιημένα ευαίσθητη σερβιτόρα αγαπάει κτητικά,δίνει τεράστια βαρύτητα στο φορτίο του έρωτα της και υποφέρει απο ζήλεια για τις ερωμένες που αφθονούν εξ αρχής στη ζωή του Τόμας.
Χωρισμένος, με έναν γιο που αρνείται να τον δεχτεί στη ζωή του γιατί γυναίκα και παιδί θα του χαλούσαν την αβάσταχτη ελαφρότητα.
Μια καλλιτέχνιδα που απολαμβάνει τη ζωή χωρίς δεσμεύσεις και μέσα στην απόλυτη ελαφρότητα του είναι της θεωρεί πως χωρίς προδοσία η ύπαρξη δεν έχει νόημα,γίνεται απελπιστικά προβλέψιμη.
Kundera wastes the first two chapters on philosophical ramblings before he finally gets around to telling the story, and even then his own voice darts in and out of the story, interjecting his own opinion into the plot.
It's like trying to watch a movie with the director's commentary playing in the background - all you can think is, "shut up and let me watch the movie in peace!" I also thought he was trying way too hard to be a Critically Acclaimed Author; for example: "Tomas did not realize at the time that metaphors are dangerous.
I have a bone to pick with Kundera and his following.
People, this has got to be the most over-rated book of human history.
I mean, references to infidelity alone (even infidelity that makes use of funky costumes like '50s ganster hats--the only note-and-applauseworthy aspect this book!) do NOT make for good literature, and such is The Unbearable Lightness of Being, in a nutshell.
In addition, Kundera's references to philosophy and Beethoven were clearly extracted from a cracker jack box.
Kundera-following (and you are the majority), free yourselves (!), and stop pretending that this book is good.
The Unbearable Lightness of Being was almost unbearable to read.
There was a lot of pseudo-intellectual meandering about things that deserved a little more grit.
Rather, I prefer a little more reality.
I didn't care about the characters, and I didn't feel like they cared about anything.
I feel like saying I was impressed with the thoughtiness of this book, but by the time I typed it I'd be so buried under multiple levels of irony that I'd suddenly be accidentally sincere again.
What was I saying?
I'd probably like this book a lot more if I was having more sex.
He even, charmer that he is, fucks with her partially-asleep mind and tells her that he's leaving her forever, so that she'll chase him and drag him back home.Tereza (that's the woman - I had to look up her name) begins to have nightmares that he's cheating on her and forcing her to watch after finding a letter from a woman in Tomas's drawer describing that very thing.
Maybe to make Tomas feel as though Tereza has a lover as well?
I need characters that I can identify with, that I can understand, maybe like...
256. Nesnesitelna lehkost byti = L’insoutenable legerete de l’etre = The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Milan KunderaThe Unbearable Lightness of Being (Czech: Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí) is a 1984 novel by Milan Kundera, about two women, two men, a dog and their lives in the 1968 Prague Spring period of Czechoslovak history. Although written in 1982, this novel was not published until two years later, in a French translation (as L'Insoutenable légèreté de l'être). The original Czech text was publ
Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí = L’insoutenable légèreté de l’être = The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Milan KunderaThe Unbearable Lightness of Being (Czech: Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí) is a 1984 novel by Milan Kundera, about two women, two men, a dog and their lives in the 1968 Prague Spring period of Czechoslovak history.
Although written in 1982, this novel was not published until two years later, in a French translation (as L'Insoutenable légèreté de l'être).

يضع كونديرا مشاعرنا في ميزان الحياه لنحدد وزنها ثم نعيد تعريف معني الثقل والخفه لنتعرف من جديد اي تلك المشاعر قد أرهق حياتنا لثقله وربما لخفته ...!أذن فأي المشاعر أفضل لحياتنا الثقيل منها أم الخفيف ..!
تلك الأسئلة التي تبقى دون جواب.
وبطريقة أخرى: الأسئلة التي تبقى دون جواب هي التي تشير إلى حدود الإمكانات الإنسانية، وهي التي ترسم وجودنا.""
The Unbelievable Lightness of The Novel I had started reading this in 2008 and had gotten along quite a bit before I stopped reading the book for some reason and then it was forgotten. Recently, I saw the book in a bookstore and realized that I hadn't finished it. I picked it up and started it all over again since I was not entirely sure where I had left off last time. I was sure however that I had not read more than, say, 30 pages or so. I definitely could not remember reading it for a long pe
Every line I read I could remember having read before and in spite of making this mistake through so many pages, I still could not but tell myself that this time, surely, I have reached the part where I must have last closed the book three years ago.Thus I have now reached the last few pages of the book and am still trying to come to terms with what it was about this novel that made me forget it, even though I identified with the views of the author and was never bored with the plot.

I spent part of my lazy weekend reading this book on the grassy hills of The Huntington Library surrounded by gardens, art, and beauty. Even the serene surroundings and my sensational reading date could not make up for this book. Weak characters, horrible assumptions, pseudo philosophy, and no clear grasp of how women are actually motivated. Only wannabe Lotharios who pride themselves as philosophers would enjoy this. I tried. I really did.
It’s the curse of contemplation that draws a bridge between this airborne lightness and earthbound heaviness and lets run a stream under it which, although, palpable, remains an enigma in life’s moonlit moments; we know the stream is running but don't know whether it's upstream or downstream; we know it has a temperature but don't know if a hand dipped in it would come out easy or numb; we know its flow can be moderated by erecting pragmatic wedges but don't know the location of sturdy land underneath.
The paradox he is most fond of is the essential identity of opposites and he is never hesitant to express it time and again....It could easily be a “book of sexual encounters” as we come to witness so much of what is normally expected of the reader to grasp on his own, in an explicit manner, giving the book an artificial aura sort of, we might be concupiscent for a while and commiserate at the other, the whole air of the book and tone never touches the inner chords, it seems to be merely populated by some puppets the author had to place in order to exert his philosophy, I might conform to his idea of living life but I remained totally detached from the fashion his characters adopted to put it in practical.
There was no emotion, no real depth, and how many times to I have to hear about him pluking the woman from the reed basket - please!Another reviewer mentioned slogging thorugh life and this book - I couldn't agree more - it was a chore and that's not what we read for.
This author has created a facade - he talks a good story, with lots of smoke and mirrors with words that sound intellectual but there is no real depth there.(Overrated) Rhetorical games, combined with recurrent references to Nietzsche and Beethoven, create an intellectual facade that seems much weightier than it really is.
"فقط يكبار زندگى كردن، مانند هرگز زندگى نكردن است.""خدا مرده است"اين يكى از مورد بحث ترين نقل قول هاى نيچه ست كه آن را اولين بار در "دانش شادان" مطرح كرد.
در واقع، نيچه -كه به گفته ى خودش متعلق به آينده بود و زودتر از موعد به دنيا آمده بود- پيش بينى كرد كه در آينده اى نزديك، انسان اروپايى گرفتار هيچ انگارى و ترديد هايى عميق راجع به موقعيت وجودى اش مى شود و "باور به خدا در ذهنش مى ميمرد و ماوراء الطبيعه ديگر در زندگى او، جايگاهى نخواهد داشت".
به دنبال اين اتفاق، نيچه تصميم مى گيرد تا راه چاره اى

the really interesting stuff comes between the sex parts.the book is propelled along with a series of misunderstandings.
shared understanding only develops over time.the idea of the soul is huge:"A long time ago, man would listen in amazement to the sound of regular beats in his chest, never suspecting what they were.
do we have a pretty face because we have a pretty soul?another topic was our life as music.
the book abounds with interesting and unanswerable questions.
In other words, it is questions with no answers that set the limit for human possibilities, describe the boundaries of human existence."
He feels angry that his time is being wasted, and he's anxious over the loss of cell service.After the storm, the three hikers have three different responses to the storm:Hiker #1 goes home to write a poem and prepare a hearty meal.Hiker #2 vows to give up caffeine and swears she'll never hike again.Hiker #3 posts a nasty tweet (disparaging Mother Nature) from his car, as soon as his cell service is restored.
Coincidentally, all three hikers were reading The Unbearable Lightness of Being by Milan Kundera, at the time of the storm, but the topic never came up on their walk.
It made me experience a sort of dizzying lightness after I was done with it, made my existence seem like an inconsequential matter, as if I am always making more out of my life than what it actually is, just the way Tomas, Tereza, Franz and Sabina did.
In fact I believe, different readers will arrive at different interpretations after reading.While weaving its way in and out of the lives of its 4 main characters and their individual reflections on various subjects, the narrative manages to capture the throes of a nation caught in the vice-like grip of Soviet persecution in addition to losing its way occasionally in a thread of philosophical rumination.
After turning the page on the incredibly heart-wrenching last chapter, I needed to begin it anew so that I could savor those doughnuts of wisdom that Kundera tosses out like they were stale day-olds.After reading the first few chapters of the book, I wrote a note to myself that said "If Love in the Time of Cholera is a representative of Latin passion and willingness to fling oneself off the cliffs of insanity, then The Unbearable Lightness of Being is its Teutonic counterpart.
جدلية الخفة والثقل هي امتداد للديالكتيك الأزلي ولتصارع الأضداد والمتناقضات رغم ان كونديرا يجنح الى معنى الثقل ووزنه في الحياة البشرية وعبثية الخفة في العديد من المواضع لكنه يبتعد عن الحتمية ويتركك تتسأل، تحكم وتقرر بنفسك.- القرارات و"ماذا لو": إن شخصيات كونديرا تحاول العثور على مكان مثالي في الحياة حيث يريدون العيش إلى الأبد، ولكن هل يستحق الأمر ترك كل ما سيضيع؟ في اللحظة التي يتخذون فيها خطوة إلى الأمام ، يبدأون في الشعور بما تركوه خلفهم للتو (سابينا حين تركت توماس، فرانسز على الحدود الكمبودية كمثال)، خاصة عندما لا توجد طريقة لمعرفة ما الذي ينتظرنا على الضفة الأخرى.
A good Europop lit-fic offering—a bit outmoded now, like Snap!
The narrator is droll, sardonic, wise, and almost unbearably smug.
In fact, I thought about using the line The Unbearable Smugness of Being but I decided not to because .
I’m sure when Kundera wrote this novel he wanted his expansive intellectual vision reduced to reminiscences of cinematic titillation.
I’m sure.
I didn’t say anything when the Tomas plot turned into Confessions of a Window Cleaner (Manny’s favourite book, so I am told).
Kundera doesn’t address this question exactly, but it would make for a good final book.
There are certain books that seem destined to be markers for periods early in one's life.
It probably needs to be read somewhere after one loses their virginity, but before they start contributing to their retirement plan consistently.One glaring weaknesses in this novel, for me at least, was Kundera's tendency to turn his major characters into philosophical props.
It was when Kundera waxed directly philosophical about kitsch or kindness that the novel resonated the strongest for me.

The beginning two sections were a little hard for me to get into, but after that I either got used to the writing or the story changed.
I had kind of settled into thinking that I wouldn't end up liking it, but that definitely changed as I kept reading.
I don't think I can say that overall this book blew me away, but it is a very interesting story about life and relationships affected by the political climate in Eastern Europe post WWII, and I am glad that I read it.
هل هي الثقل أم الخفة أم الأثنين معاً؟هل هي رواية أم تحليل نفسي أم فلسفة حياة أم إعادة تناول لمفاهيم 
