https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123517.The_Sky_Liners
Flagan and Galloway (whose parents obviously hated children) were a tight team and it was interesting following them on this adventure.
And I had an even harder time with Judith—she starts out poorly, what with her very bad judgment, and she takes her time reforming.As with the other Sackett tales, this one is a great adventure, well-paced and populated with plenty of well-fleshed side characters.
I liked both Flagan and Judith, but I just didn't see them coming together enough to get where they were by the end.
Not the strongest Sackett book, but it was still a quick, fun read that I found nearly impossible to put down.
Can you believe I read this? I did. I read it in honor of my grandpa. He loves these books.I really liked it. It was adventurous, romantic and CLEAN. Louis L'Amour is a fun writer. Who knew?
The Sackett novels are a lot of fun. The plots and characters aren’t all that original, but L’Amour puts the familiar pieces together in a way that is always enjoyable. I love his use of language and the descriptions of the Western scenery.
It was good with suspense. Mr. Lamour always has good actions in his western.
Flagan and Galloway Sackett travel from the hills of Tennessee westward to seek their fortunes. An Irish hose trader provides them mounts with the provision that they escort his granddaughter to Colorado to find her father. The girl is in love with an outlaw who pursues the the trio. He has plans of his own for her father's ranch and needs control of the girl. Flagan falls for the girl as they travel.
Read most of Louis Lamour's books when I was in my late teens and early twenties. They are important to me as they were some of the first books that got me into the reading habit. For that I shall be forever grateful
My brother asked to give Louis L'Amour another chance, so I read one of the Sackett series and I really enjoyed it. It followed a good story line, showed growth in all the main characters, and was a fun/fast read.
This was the last Sackett book I read. I started reading them because my dad owns every book by L'Amour. They were all sorta similar and got resolved too quickly at the end of the book. Still wish there was more Sacketts to read though. Good books and will probably reread them again.
Louis L'Amour will always be remembered as a story teller in western fiction. Flagan and Galloway Sackett run into a tough group and must find a way to save the lady and help tame the West. Another fine adventure by the author.
This is an excellent book about family and being your word. I love the Sackett stories because they have such a strong family bond. They are there for one another no matter what.
Good storyThis Is maybe the third time i've read this one. It stays a page turner. There are others of this author's books I've read a good ten times each.
It doesn't get any better than this.
The Sackett boys make fools of the group and head out for the west hoping to find a stake so they can build a place of their own.
What follows is an adventure chasing down a willful girl, the search for a long lost treasure and a vendetta that almost gets the boys killed.This is 100% Louis L'Amour.
I love the Sacketts and look forward to meeting each new group.
They are a philosophical group and all they really want is some land to call their own with a few head of cattle and some horses.
There isn't a better storyteller around than Louis L'Amour.
They cross the villainous Black Fletchen early in the book, spiriting away Judith, a girl he's set his eyes on -- or maybe it is her horses and the land she'll inherit out west?
This is really a 4.5 star book, but I rounded it up because of Judith.
By the end, she's grown up and shows her mettle by being able to help with the cattle.
The book ended up being a "feel good book" in that everything turns out as it should, no surprise in most Westerns.
Go ahead an add it to your Western collection.
The Sackett boys weren't out to make a reputation; it just happened that way. They had crossed Black Fetchen and lived to tell about it. Now Fetchen was coming for them with the most expensive hired guns in the country. But the Sacketts were no strangers to trouble. They knew what guns were and how to use them, and one thing was sure: when the showdown came, the Sacketts would be ready, and someone was going to die.
Some cowboy Shiz.Every now and then a man just needs to be reminded what it means to get down and dirty, to beat up bad dudes. The sachets are about as manly as you get and if you need to realize what pure outrage is, you will jump in and place yourself in this book. I'd fight with them sackett boys. Wouldn't get shot neither.
Good western but I deducted one star because L'Amour had not taken the word 'taken' from his vocabulary. Most people from the west were not ignorant hillbillies. That said, it is fast paced, adventurous and the good guys win; everything you want in a western. Recommended.
Galway and Fallon Sackett just want to head west but they are asked to accompany a young girl named Judith out to her father in Colorado. Judith thinks she's in love with a bounder that the reader knows is nothing but trouble. Gunfight ensues. Virtue is reward. I love Louis L'Amour books.
I really liked this one, except for a couple things. It sort of undid everything the previous book did. I kept hoping I'd find out what happened to the wolf-dog, but no. Or the girl, but no. On the other hand, the action just kept coming and I kept turning pages.
I’ve read nearly all the Sackett books and this is one of the best and one of the hardest to put down.
A fun audiobook listen with a lot of action and an endless plot of chase scenes.
This is another good Sacket book. Two brothers take on a group of powerful bad people as they escort a young lady to her father's ranch. There is even love.
As good as the others.
One of my favorite L'Amours. Great character development and plot. Similar to The Daybreakers, so if you liked that one you'll definitely like this one. :)
My weakness for Louis L'Amour westerns is disturbing. Easy to read. Simple plots and usually a happy ending. Once again the Sacketts triumph against all odds.
I loved the fast pace of this novel.
It's like reading an episode of Bonanza.
It's a bit chaotic at times but always enjoyable and sometimes we buy specific titles related to the month's subject and pass them round.One of our senior members suggested Louis L'Amour as an author whose research and story-telling were worthy.
I liked the book a lot but had to get used to a few things.
The Sacketts, mountain boys, who are moving west to seek their fortunes after paying off their father's debts, start the story without horses, but guns and their moccasins which are excellent for creeping around in and not leaving tracks.
The half box is a three-sided right-angled figure like a square-and-equal-sided U.
She starts out spoiled - I was reminded of Orrin's ex, Laura - until she sees Black Fetchen for what he is and comes to her senses; then, Judith becomes this meek, subservient creature proclaiming her love for Flagan.
And, because Judith reminded me of Laura, I expected her to be a turncoat, playing the Sacketts for Fetchen's advantage but the story isn't even strong enough to support that plot - ultimately, Judith fades into the background, just another love interest of the Sackett fellas.
Flagan and Galloway are hired to escort Judith and several horses cross-country to Colorado.
In this 1967 entry, Flagan and Galloway Sackett take their second trip west from Tennessee, after helping Tell Sackett in the Mogollons, The Sackett Brand (1965).
Sackett Titles #11 - Flagan and Galloway Sackett head west from Tennessee to seek their fortunes.
That's when they came across an old Irish trader who offered them two fine horses if they would agree to escort his granddaughter, Judith, to her father in Colorado.
Flagan and Galloway can only guess why Judith is so important to Fetchen and what awaits them at her father's ranch.
