https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/859500.Translations
So, watching the play in English, they are really put on the same side as the British, and so the audience is forced to always be aware of their own political and cultural context as colonized people whose language has been so lost that they wouldn't even be able to understand their own ancestors.
In other words, by having characters pretend not to be able to understand each other in a play about language being lost, watchers then are pulled out of the suspension of disbelief that a play requires.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]you are welcome to link to your blog at the beginning or end of your review, but the review itself must be posted on GoodreadsYou would have thought they had had enough of poking readers already. Anyways, I shall leave the link at the top and reiterate my four star love of this 'free speech/anti_censorship' declaration.I love the author - kiss kiss kissI love the content - kiss kiss kissI love what this book stands for - kiss kiss kissI love meI love
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books
 (hide spoiler)]you are welcome to link to your blog at the beginning or end of your review, but the review itself must be posted on GoodreadsYou would have thought they had had enough of poking readers already. Anyways, I shall leave the link at the top and reiterate my four star love of this 'free speech/anti_censorship' declaration.I love the author - kiss kiss kissI love the content - kiss kiss kissI love what this book stands for - kiss kiss kissI love meI love youI love everyone who thinks this way - kiss kiss kiss
This cartography project sets the context for Friel's narrative, a story which, for its many layers, is ultimately a bold examination of the function of language.The characters in the play, a group of students who attend a local hedge school, speak only Irish.
The multilingual Irish schoolmaster and his two sons exist at this intersection of language and culture, and the liberties they take in translating back and forth remind us that translation isn't a wholly linguistic effort: it's a complex process in which meanings become twisted and manipulated.Though the students speak very little English, they fluently read Latin and Ancient Greek, this integration of dead languages paralleling the probable future of Gaelic.
First read in spring of 2013April 2015: I enjoyed this even more the second time!
It was wonderful to revisit it after having read it while studying abroad in Ireland.
Having seen the play in Dublin after reading it the first time really helped clarify the image of the play in my mind.
And I could revisit that while reading it a second time.
It talks about relationships across cultures, language and translation, loyalty, and the idealization of the past.
How we deal with these issues varies among cultures and peoples and nations, and I find that distinction to be interesting.
A real treat! I liked the way that the play works on different levels. The surface story, the historical, the social commentary about colonialism and the arrogance of renaming all of a country's landmarks, the idea of words as signposts, the way characters do & don't communicate even without words. I have also listened to the BBC Radio adaptation which was marvelous. Perhaps I wouldn't have loved the written play as much if I didn't have those voices in my mind...
Perhaps the most arresting concept of the whole play is what Friel describes in the opening of Act Two- worth quoting at length I think:Yolland’s official task, which Owen is now doing, is to take each of the Gaelic names—every hill, stream, rock, even every patch of ground which possessed its own distinctive Irish name—and Anglicise it, either by changing it into its approximate English sound or by translating it into English words.
Friel cleverly manoeuvres his English-speaking Irish audience throughout the play until they are forced to concede their closest approximation in the play is the naïve, bumbling, but ultimately sympathetic and tragic character of Lieutenant Yolland.
[mini opinião]Adorei esta peça, especialmente em termos formais - escrita em inglês por um irlandês onde a maioria das personagens supostamente falam em irlandês, com a participação de outras que falam em inglês; tudo escrito em inglês.
É muito interessante ver estas trocas linguísticas e acrescentar o facto de existirem vários registos (personagens de diferentes mundos socioeconómicos).
Muito divertido, teve tudo o que é preciso: comédia, romance e drama.
Obviamente que o mais importante são as críticas que Friel faz à sociedade inglesa da época - a falta de educação, de respeito pelas colónias e o seu carácter excessivamente imperialista.Simplesmente adorei e acho que foi das obras mais interessantes que já estudei :-)
I had moved into a consciousness that wasn't striving nor agitated, but at its ease and with its own conviction and assurance...
The private core will always be hermetic, won't it?Hugh: Yes, it is a rich language, lieutenant, full of the mythologies of fantasy and hope and self-deception - a syntax opulent with tomorrows...
The wrong gesture in the wrong language.Jimmy: I am a barbarian in this place because I am not understood by anyone.Hugh: Everything seemed to find definition that spring - a congruence, a miraculous matching of hope and past and present and possibility.
Translations deals with the British army's program of renaming places in Ireland with English names or Anglicized spellings--so the Irish town name 'Baile Beag' gets replaced by the Anglicized 'Ballybeg.' These are clearly languages exploring the power relations between the Irish and the British.The odd and challenging thing about this relationship between Irish and English is that all of the Irish characters are supposed to speak their native language, but the text of the play is written in English.
He deftly connects the political project (English excursions into Ireland and the changing of place names from Irish to English) with the personal (the romance between two people who don't speak each other's language) in ways much better than I've described (Obviously I don't have Friel's way with words :)).
There's a lot to get out of Translations: the re-writing of history, the status (and creation) of narratives, the role of language, colonisation and so on.
But, Translations is also about the people and how they live(d) their everyday lives and it's in describing this that Friel's writing shines.
The first time I read this for college I thought it was terrible, but then realised the way we read plays in english class would make anybody hate them.
I think plays are closer to poetry than prose/novels in their technical sense - it's not about a load of people sitting around complaining about the english, but just the right amount of different themes given in just the right amounts at the right times.
Too many good plays are ruined by ridiculous tedious scenes.
My brain just can't help but feel a sense of genius from the structure.
From BBC radio 4 - Saturday Drama:A new production of Brian Friel's masterpiece about language and power.It's the summer of 1833.
It's an act with unexpected and violent consequences.Thirty years ago playwright Brian Friel and actor Stephen Rea founded the Field Day Theatre Company in Northern Ireland.
A company that aimed to provide a 'fifth province' in which Ireland's political and social troubles could be explored and re-imagined.
Translations was its first production and became an instant classic.
To mark its anniversary, BBC Radio 4 has commissioned a new production, specially adapted for radio by Michael Duke.
I absolutely loved this play about Britain's colonial control over rural Ireland.The characters hit you in the heart in so many different ways.
Manus and Hugh witnessing the erosion of their home as English soldiers are sent to change the "confusing names" of places in Baile Beag.
Owen realising too late his role in all of this and poor Yolland struggling to find a place where he belongs.
It's gut wrenching how destructive colonialism was.
Abroad and at home.
The old with the new till nobody knows what is correct and incorrect and eventually people start thinking the worst: "I am a barbarian in this place because I am not understood by anyone".
I know I was meant to reread this for booktubeathon but I couldn't resist.
This is such a fabulous play, full of so many complex thoughts, ideas and feelings.
There is so much to think about as an English speaking Irish person who lives in an Ireland where place names are anglicised and thought of in their English form first.
It's a powerful examination of one aspect of how colonialism changed my country as well as a look at what it means to be 'learned' or 'educated' especially when that entails fluency in so called 'dead languages'.One gripe though.
Why do we have no fadas on words like Máire and why are words like poitín anglicised to poteen?
The premise was moderately promising, the idea of languages and cultures colliding as the British tried to come up with new names for places throughout Ireland.
But the thing that was most infuriating was the fact that while all characters are speaking English, you have to suspend your disbelief enough to believe that they don't understand each other, as only the British are ACTUALLY speaking English, and the Irish have had their words "translated" so the audience can understand them.
If you don't even understand what I mean as I've written it here, you must be able to imagine how infuriating it was to read and then watch.
”This play clearly shows the manipulation of language.
How do you establish that your language is better than the other?
Language is something which is entwined with your culture so denying your language and embracing another language can mean rejection of your culture.
Some like to do it whole heartedly (those like Owen and Maire) but some reject it (Manus).I liked the play although I found it frustrating in some places.
The overall idea is very nicely portrayed by the dramatist showing that even though there are more than one language in the world, how the British believe that their language is superior and greater than all the other languages.
The concept for this play sounded interesting and some of the wordplay was. In the end I felt like the story didn't quite get where it was going. Or maybe the problem is that it's the same old story of colonization and its ugly truths. I thought the relationship between the two brothers might be flushed out, but it wasn't. In the end there wasn't enough newness or depth of character for my taste.
Me lo tendría que haber leído en noviembre para una clase but shit happens. Also i'm a mess así que bueno, primer libro del 2017 leído.
Read twice now and lucky enough to see a great production the other day. It just improves the more you look at it.
It's a 1980 classic and a powerful account of nationhood, dealing with the turbulent relationship between England and Ireland in one quiet country community. But it's also much more. It's a timeless and universal play about the power of words, identity, non-communication, culture-clash. It's about language as a vehicle of cu. lture and about the possibility of truly translating from a language into another. I loved it!
Although intelligent enough in his own right, he appears deformed, not only in figure, but in speech, for he refuses to speak English, even if he is fluent in the language.The two brothers are the sons of the Master of the townland's hedge-school (no more than a former barn where the students learn Greek, Latin, writing, geography, and sums).
Most of the action in the play takes place inside this hedge-school, and we learn the different attitudes of the students to English - some admit that it is the language of commerce/ the language that will lead them to better lives in America, where others will admit only the superiority of Greek and Latin.By the end of the play, however, none of the students' thoughts or feelings matter.
The point of the play was the language barrier (everyone is speaking English, but only the British are actually speaking English if that makes sense??), which I thought wasn't very well executed, except for in the scene with Yolland and Maire.
This scene was actually the reason I picked up the play.
The number one thing that annoyed me in this play (and believe me this is very pedantic) was when there were actual Irish words used.
Every Irish word was spelt wrong.
"Gaelic" goodbye I am so mad at this play and stupid Donegal Irish.
As the drama unfolds, Owen, whose name is lost on the English and is called Roland instead, slowly begins to recognise that he is losing his own identity to these English surveyors much like his country is being suppressed and attempts are made to strip it of its "Irishness." Owen's earlier cavalier attitude toward names -- he says, "It is only a name" at one point in the first act -- changes too late, and Owen and the audience are left with the understanding that this culture will never be the same once its names are gone.
This is set agains the backdrop of the arrival of a group of British army surveyors who are there to map the region - meaning, either renaming or translating the Gaelic names into proper English ones.Naturally, language is a central theme in this play.
In the process of learning about the land and translating its secrets into concepts they could understand, they have taken all the power away from the Irish.I was fascinated by the whole story.
Language is a surefire way to either give or take power, and the history of colonialism affirms this.
And I loved it.This play is based on the concept of the Ordnance Surveys taking place in Ireland in the 1830.
The purpose of the project was to map the country in great detail, six inches to the mile, as well as to standardize the names of places in Ireland.
A fascinating part of the play's structure is that though English is the main medium, it is clear that some characters are supposed to be speaking Irish, while others speak English.
I find it is a fascinating structure.Irish/English language shifts and tension are my bread and butter, so this play really drove that home for me.
A gorgeous play, one Friel might be more remembered for in the long run, rather than Dancing At Lughnasa. This work centers on an 1800s Irish village, and its struggle to maintain the Irish language when the new British rulers come in and start renaming everything in sight. Only one of the soldiers is charmed by the indigenous culture and his attempts to communicate in the incorrect language with Sarah, the local he has fallen in love with, create the beating heart of the matter: language defines human culture, but language is transcended by true empathy with another individual.
About the only thing I can say against this play is that I'm completely incapable of imagining it inside my head. The Celtic words are so strange that they continually drag me away from the play, as I try to figure out how they sound, and the fact that Friel uses English to represent two different languages doesn't help.But none of this is any fault of the play, but merely a symptom of my own ignorance. In truth, the play is brilliant, addressing language as both a form of healing and as a corrupting and oppressive power.
Even though this book just has 91 pages, the characters grew on me in that short time. The book was interesting and the plot went into a direction I did not expect at all. Definitely recommending this one! Loved it.
This story revolves around English officers sent to Ireland to rename cities and landmarks with "more recognizable" names. It's short and sweet, with a tragic ending, but has a few funny moments when two people who don't speak the same language say the same thing and the other doesn't understand
A people forget how to speak. Dún Laoghaire becomes Kingstown. We all get drunk. So it goes.
