https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347918.Journeys_Out_of_the_Body
Being the logical, scientific person that he was, Robert set out to document what was occurring when it seemed he was exiting his body with the hope of coming to understand as much as he could about this phenomenon.Over time he wrote three books on his experiences and along the way he invented an audio technology to assist others who wish to have the same experience.If you have any curiosity about OBEs or astral travel and would like to take a look at the subject matter in a non-new-age way, this is definitely the book to do it with.
This is a must read :)And Robert Monroe still exists.. Cause no one dies..Sending my Best vibes straight to your soul and much gratitude for all your Nobel work here and beyond..In the light of the same awareness we are one.In the love which unites us..On the path of light..Death does not kill love.. Neither destroys consciousness..Who departed, still alive..Who stayed, also.. Life is the same everywhere.. Here and there, There and here, are just space limitations..We are pure, imperishable consciousness.Much light and love to all.Namaste,Dave
If you believe you are not just a body and a mind, and that your existence trandscends just the physical, this book will be very revelatory and helpful.
And even if you are a dyed in the wool believer of contemporary mediocrity and science, that our existence is explained by Darwinianism, DNA threads, or solely at the hands of some all-powerful god - then this book is going to challenge you and quite likely offend your senses.
He does not present himself as a spiritual guru or sensationalize the stories in any way, but rather describes his experiences as if observing them for a scientific study.
I recognize similarities in his accounts and the experiences of Emanuel Swedenborg.
I'm not sure I can go back into the book and easily find a story that I want to read again, because it's not really organized into categories.
Still, I don't know what other book has so much information on this topic presented in a relatable way.
I recommend this book for readers who want to know more about the OBE phenomenon and prefer a factual approach without religious interpretation.
The person then knows that he will survive death.The OBE is generally “extremely joyful” to those who have it.In some instances the description of what was happening at a distant place proves to be correct and more accurate than we would expect by coincidence.Monroe terms the OBE state as “Second State”, and the body we use when experiencing OBEs as “Second Body”.
For Monroe, fear was the dominant theme – fear of the unknown, of strange (non-physical) beings, of “death”, of God, etc.The areas of Locale II “nearest” the physical world are peopled mostly with insane or near-insane, emotionally driven beings.
Has anybody written anything like that?I had imagined that learning about out of body experiences would be empowering and uplifting but parts of Munroe’s account didn’t really leave me feeling that way.Take this journal entry in which he describes aliens and the loss of his belief system: “Then they seemed to soar up into the sky, while I called after them, pleading… By this time, it was getting light, and I sat down and cried, great deep sobs as I have never cried before, because then I knew without any qualification or future hope of change that the God of my childhood, of the churches, of religion throughout the world was not as we worshiped him to be- that for the rest of my life, I would “suffer” the loss of this illusion.
Out of Body Experiences?
More like Out of Marriage Experiences!
I believe the vow is "until death do we part" not "until I gain the ability to leave my body and travel to Locale Two."That being said, this book is interesting.
I like how he touched upon people being controlled through the manipulation of fear and sexuality.
Where's that book?Some of his voyages to me suggested another plane where we're all unconsciously conversing with one another.
I really like that.Five stars for the part about Kennedy's psychic body guard.
Seriously though, what is Locale Three?
I want to know more about that place.
I love the fools that scorn through this siteI read this book many years ago and it captivated me from start to finish Have since tracked down the rest of his booksRIP Mr Monroe
Self development is the most difficult pursuit any human can imagine because each seeker must come to grips with the negativity of friends, family, loved ones, and the cadre of those who believe that reality is limited to what the human five senses can register.
Robert Monroe afford those who dare the training wheels that act like wings for those few who desire to dive headlong into the abyss of spirituality and along the way he furnished a map of attainable states of awareness and various levels of existence.
The Simpsons' Dr. Monroe is loosely -very loosely- based on Dr. Robert Allan Monroe, author of 'Journeys out of the Body', and inventor of 'Binaural Beats'.
In the book he lifts the veil on one of the tantalizing abilities of the human mind, namely to exist outside of the human.
Whether this is merely a highly powerful form of the state we all know as 'dreaming', a life after death, or some uncanny, of yet under-explored ability to consciously induce a state wherein we explore a non-physical world using our purported non-physical bodies, is up to the reader to discover.
Anyone, with appropriate learning, can leave their physical body at will.I learned that we are not our bodies. What remains after physical death is the essence of what we are.
Multiple variables were kept track of for each astral projection experience, including the method of separation, the position of physical during separation, elapsed time of journey, and etc.
At the end of the book, Robert explains procedures to conduct your own astral projection experience.
He then provides statistics showing which techniques worked best, the circumstances in which experiments succeeded, which senses were existent in the second body, and etc.
If you are interested in astral projection, there isn't a better book to start your research on than with Robert Monroe's Journeys Out of the Body.
This is a very unique book about the OBE phenomenon, known as Astral Projection, written by Robert Monroe, a very normal businessman, who, in his early forties, began to have unusual experiences, in which he would find himself disassociated from his physical body into what he calls the Second Body.
So, in the end, there's only one way to find out whether astral realms, such as Locale I, II and III, as Monroe calls them, really exist or not.
Somehow that feels better than telling to myself that he is full of shit, just because some scientists said that OBEs are not possible.
I found that Monroe found the sweet spot in between in which through meticulous research and experimentation as well as documentation he was able to present bizarre or dreamlike experiences in a way that were both palatable and believable.
Much of this can probably be attributed to his background and upbringing which makes it even more believable as he was a middle class, average joe persona.
I would recommend this book if you are either interested in out of body experiences or like to read step by step inquiries into new fields of scientific research.
Second, I wonder if it has and is unknown to the average person.
I enjoyed this early account of Robert Monroe's "discovery" of astral projection=remote viewing=out-of-the-body phenomena and his description of his own experiences, but I wouldn't confidently recommend it to anyone not already committed to and seriously interested in the phenomenology of such things.
Like a good first person ghost story, one can suspend disbelief and go for the ride as I did, but, on reflection, it boils down to how willing you are to believe the storyteller.I've read several books now on these kinds of matters and, having paid years of close attention to my own dreams and hallucinations and those of some others, am quite ready to believe that people honestly experience what could, variously, be interpreted as OBEs, NDEs, astral projection, remote viewing or even alien abduction.
This book is a first hand recording of the Out Of Body Experiences (OOBE) that businessman Robert Monroe encountered for the first few times. Robert Monroe wrote about his experiences in great detail, while also following scientific experiment style recording of information. His book is a great guide for those who are looking for answers to their questions about OOBE's. This book is a gateway to many others written in the field of OOBE's, but still provides an explanation for more advanced readers and anyone interested in researching the topic.
For anyone that want's to know what happens after death
get out of your body NOW!
I found it quite fascinating, even though it is much different from Moody's and Eadie's books, in that it is not concerned so much with death and the spiritual aspects of OOBEs. Rather, Monroe, an American businessman who had had a successful career in radio, discovered in the late 1950s that he could exit his physical body, and decided to develop his own experimental program to learn about this strange state.
In his book Journeys out of the Body Robert A Monroe discusses astral projection with his readers.
In this book Robert A Monroe goes into detail about how one can achieve this and goes step by step through the process of how one can be able to astral project and have total control over their being while doing so.
He talks about how he was first able to astral project and he tells stories of his outer body experiences and things that he witnessed while astral projecting.
He seems to really persuade his readers into trying astral projection by telling them how life changing out of body experiences are.
This is a great book. It made astral projection very interesting.
Fascinating look at one mans journeys outside of the normal mode. Do you believe? You might after you pick this one up.
Interesting to read, but the whole idea gave me a lot of doubt.
This book is just wow! Recommend.
Monroe believes that his Second Body left his physical body in his sleep.
I found it very interesting that now in the 21st century very few experiments have been completed to discover the Second Body because it appears as though this was a very popular topic in the 60s and 70s.
It is interesting to note that a psychiatrist in the book mentions that people who have low anxiety and fear of death are documented as claiming to have out of body experiences.
If out of body experiences are real, it could lead to very interesting discussions in our time about the soul.
This book and the two subsequent books by Robert changed my life for the better in so many ways.
Also the auditory methods he developed can improve human health in many ways and are available through the Monroe Institute website.
The 3 books he wrote are very readable, compelling and even mindblowing in many ways.
The second book Far Journeys has a section towards the back where Robert charts in specific detail the structure of the energy systems extending from Earth outwards, where humans before, during and after earth lives dwell, interact with others and perform services related to the operation of the Earth School.
Robert does indeed give quite detailed instructions towards the end of the book as to how go about doing that and even how to conduct your own research in the process.
It seems Robert really tried to make this a rational, credible (even 'scientific') work but it's just filled with so many 'facts' that cannot be substantiated in a scientific way.
And yet, as he was reporting his experiences and appeared to have kept detailed records of them, it was difficult to dismiss out of hand.
Funnily enough, after reading this, I'm not so keen to rush into having such experiences.
Robert Monroe's books should be REQUIRED READING.
imagine if astral projection was common knowledge in the west.
people would finally understand that death is an illusion, that we are eternal beings, and that we create and manifest our own reality through the power of thought.
in a way, dreams are proof of this, as we leave our bodies each night during sleep.
these are the answers to the universe and the nature of consciousness + existence that i've been searching for my entire life.
reviewing this more in depth later on.
starting "far journeys" today :)
A classic OOB read.
one should read the entire three books that were written by Robert Monroe because what he starts out believing is not the same as the end interpretation of his experiences, yet it is nice to see how his ideas progress from A to B and the whole process is enlightening for those who are on the same path.
After reading all of them, I would venture into the Tom Campbell, My Big Toe trilogy.
He is the young engineer who helped Monroe set up the Monroe Institute and one of the many whose explorations are documented in the Monroe books.
This was a pioneering book in its own time, but I found Monroe's writing a bit dry and technical. He coined the phrase "out of body experience" and did valuable research which opened the doors for others to continue his work. For me, this book is more about an interesting history of the beginning of OBE's than a how-to. If you're looking for a book to tell you how to have an OBE, pick up a copy of William Buhlman's "Adventures Beyond The Body".
