https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774829.The_Return_of_Philip_Latinowicz
2016 reading challenge - a classic from the 20th centuryOf Croatian literature, in this caseI lowered the rating from 4 to 3 stars because, despite it being a classic and the first Croatian modern novel blah blah blah, I remember how much I hated making myself read it. The plot isn't bad and it gets better towards the end, but the first part of the book is too dis-chronological and my head hurt.Also I do not think dis-chronological is a legitimate word, but I'm too lazy to look up the alternative.
It's a trip into the stifling and stuffy world of provincial Habsburg aristocracy, their endless intrigues, backbiting, and attempts to move up the foodchain and avoid the fate worse than death - having to work for a living.
We see this world through the artist's eye, as despite himself he is constantly inspired by the coarse world around him to create new paintings, that capture the rawness of country life and elevate it to the eternal.
Croatia is also undergoing a demographic crisis as young people leave in droves for the more established EU countries (as they are from the rest of the Balkans).
I really, really love novels of becoming and returning (see The Moon and the Bonfires) since they tend to demonstrate gorgeously tragic oppositions of modernity versus tradition. This is a good example of that. This book in particular contains some of the most apt descriptions I've ever read about how exceedingly hard it is for others to feel the same spark you have for your passions and your thoughts; you must shamelessly promote and risk coming off as a conceited high-falutin' braggart or else live imprisoned.
I'm never, ever, ever reading this again.
Užas. Puno nabacanih, besmislenih rečenica pisanih kvaziintelektualnim stilom. Praktički nema radnje, likovi su jednodimenzionalni, dosadni i do zla boga pričljivi, no svi zajedno ne mogu sročiti jednu inteligentnu rečenicu.
I read this because it was a favorite of Sartre. I don't think we have the same taste in literature...
Krleža je kao čovjek bio ljigavac koji se uvaljivao u guzicu moćnicima te je isključivo radi onoga što obični narod zove politika smatran tako dobar i cijenjen pisac.Žalosno je da se pored Donadinija ili Kozarčanina uzdiže Krleža na tron hrvatske književnosti dvadesetog stoljeća.
Krleža je bio dobar pisac dakako, posebice se ističu Gospoda Glembajevi, no da je Krleža vrhunac naše književnosti dvadesetog stoljeća to je uistinu klimavo i to je ustanovljeno radi izvanknjiževnih razloga.
Svi oni koji slijede mrtvace ili starine koji su pisali književne teorije su zapravo poput Krleže.
Oni su poput Krleže u smislu da sami sebe guraju u već izgrađenu cjelinu umjesto da je ruše.
While the first half of the book seems as rather difficult and confusing,second half comes as a great reward and culmination. Implications of this plot and main character are relatable to everyday's life. Also the scenes from Filip's life are brilliantly composed.
I barely found material to give it 2 stars.
Though harder to understand, it should not present a problem to a typical reader or a highschool student.This piece of literature (whose contet is common knowledge for the Croats) takes a subject of a male character that shows us his life, his dilemmas and his relationship with his mother, who presents herself as his fathers widow, though the neighbourhood sees her as a local courtesan.
Gledano u retrospekciji, ovaj roman se ne čini kao da bi bio loš.
Naprotiv- povratak umjetnika kod kojeg je manjak volje i inspiracije doveo do preispitivanja identiteta i smisla života- čini se kao zanimljivo djelo.
Pogrešno.
Prateći vizualne, olfaktivne, taktilne i auditivne pjesničke slike koje nam je Krleža svojom prebogatom tehnikom deskripcije pokušao dočarati (moglo bi se reći da graniči s intelektualnim hvalisanjem), razvukao je radnju do te mjere da mi je među silnim, raskošnim opisima sama potencijalna kvaliteta priče izgubila vrijednost.
Uzmimo u obzir da je to prvi moderni hrvatski roman, no, čita se kao sporo-tempirani, pametno-pisani, povijesni roman koji većini današnjih čitatelja (čast časnim iznimkama) brzo dosadi.
I'm seriously becoming tired of these books about pseudo-intellectuals and artists who are oh-so-smart and don't fit in anywhere; are constantly sad and depressed about everything, and eventually fall for a woman who is pretty much a whore. If I had wanted to induce a depression, I'd have probably read this or just have re-read Proust, because nothing depresses me more than empty philosophy and endless descriptions and digressions from the plot, which doesn't really exist, either.Krleža, you were doing great, then you got the "amazing" idea to write a novel. Wot r u doin m8?
The book started off well. I thought I might like it, but at one point it just became a drag. I do like descriptions, but Krleza just goes too far with it in this book. The whole story seemed like it was written by someone who needs to deal with personal issues (I guess that was the point, but somehow for me in this case, it didn't work). The only picture I am left with after reading this work is mold...So... the book was just OK for me.
I can see the merit in it but it has dated poorly imo.
Jedna od meni najgorih, ako ne i najgora, srednjoškolska lektira.
Možda preteška literatura za lektiru, no definitivno roman vrijedan čitanja.
Krleža's books would have been more interesting, if they were written in some other genre or style.
Na een afwezigheid van 23 jaar keert voornoemde Filip Latinovicz terug naar zijn geboortedorp in de hoop daar tot rust te komen en inspiratie op te doen.
Filip zoekt rust voor zijn opgejaagde zenuwen en wil zijn zintuigen beschermen tegen een teveel aan prikkels, die het hem als schilder onmogelijk maken om de dingen nog op een 'echte' manier te zien.
In het dorp gearriveerd verzoent hij zich moeilijk en oppervlakkig met zijn moeder, die hem zoveel jaar geleden de deur wees na een uit de hand gelopen slemppartij.
Liefhebbers van Marai zullen bij Krleza zeker aan hun trekken komen.
HRV: Interesantna i zanimljiva, učršćuje Krležu kao najboljeg hrvatskog pisca.ENG: Interesting and compelling, it secures Krleža as one of Croatia's best writers. This was actually my matura essay, which I might one day write into this review, if I'm bored enough.
I couldn't read more than 70 pages of this book. I appreciate Miroslav Krleža's style of writingbut this simply wasn't for me. I couldn't get involved with the character...despite being it a first Croatian novel, I couldn't make myself read it anymore.
Uskomattoman huono käännös englannin kautta.
Absolutely stunning, one of the best croatian novels.
kyriales me dokrajčio.
Preskočite i poštedite se zijevanja.
3.60
And I thought B. Pekić was boring smh
Seriously?
Ljudi lakiraju svoje nokte kao perverzni istočnjaci, kupaju se u mramornim kupaonicama, voze se ugrijanim kočijama, piju gorke želučane likere, ali pojma zapravo nemaju ŠTO JE TO ŽIVOTNA STVARNOST I KAKO BI JE TREBALO ŽIVJETI?” “Čovjek je životinja u svojoj pojedinačnoj osamljenosti savršeno tužna, u prirodi, moglo bi se reći, gotovo deplasirana!
Ljudi lakiraju svoje nokte kao perverzni istočnjaci kupaju se u mramornim kupaonicama voze se u ugrijanim kočijama piju gorke želučane likere ali pojma zapravo nemaju što je to životna stvarnost i kako bi trebalo živjeti"
"Što bi čovjek gluhima tumačio glazbu?"
Il "mistero" di questa etichetta sta nel fatto che questo libro porta questa dedica: "Un libro speciale per un "Content Manager" speciale" firmato Luisa. (dicembre 2003)". A quell'epoca ero "Content Manager" di un sito che aveva il nome di "Biblio-net.com". Lo gestivo insieme al suo giovane fondatore, un bulgaro - italiano di nome Orlin. Sul portale c'era un frequentatissimo forum dedicato alla lettura. Luisa era una assidua frequentarice, ricordo solo questo. I libri fanno anche questo ... Ci sarà modo di parlarne quando avrò finito di leggerlo ...
