https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90475.Teen_Idol
Her grandmother thought that everything said girl had an interest in is going to send her to Hell.
Annie responds saying that her grandmother is crazy and that she's already in Hell, it's called high school.We are then taken to the first chapter in which Jenny is in class.
This upsets Jenny because she knows how important that doll is to her teacher.
But said best friend brushes it off claiming that the teacher will be fine.That's about as much as I read.
And yes that girl's grandmother was weird to consider everything her granddaughter liked Hell worthy, that still doesn't mean you have the right to call someone's grandmother nuts.
I had pre-conceived ideas about Teen Idol (I mean, reading the back cover synopsis who wouldn't?) But Meg Cabot did something she tends to do a lot --something I tend to forget and therefore don't give her credit for-- she surprised me!
(hide spoiler)]And, Cabot really intrigued me by making sure that not only did I not realise Jen wasn't falling for Luke for a while --she was too busy realising she was already in love with the cute editor-in-cheif of the school newspaper-- but that the  reason  I didn't realise this was because Jenny herself didn't realise it..It was cute, and if you're looking for a light read then this is the perfect choice!Over and out, T x["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
DNF at 30% because:- The story narrator is supposed to be sixteen, but she sounds twelve- The audiobook narrator has the most irritating voice I've ever heard- Dull, dull, dull, dull- Plot's going nowhere, and it's doing it slowly- Everyone's been fooled by the super famous Hollywood star's awesome disguise of ... glasses- Hollywood star gets labelled 'sensitive' because he stands up for someone who is being bullied. No, that makes him a fucking human being. Nope. Just nope.
This was every bit of what I expected from Meg Cabot. Yeah, the setup is beyond unlikely and not just the celebrity vising the high school part. But all the unlikely bits make perfect sense in a fun story with people I came to care about and an engaging plot. And, of course, Jenny was a lot of fun to spend time with and joining her while she learns who she wants to be and what she's going to make important in her life was just outstanding.
Teen Idol was the book which changed my opinion of ‘pink covered books’.After going through a lot of
I loved Jen, and how she was mayonnaise and secret sauce, and how she wielded so much power through niceness.
I liked her secret identity a lot, and how she cared about her latin teacher's doll, of all things.
identity porn!
- and that he became friends with our heroine but was clearly not meant to be her love interest.
(This would also work on me, fyi, I mean, if anybody wants to seduce me.) I liked the growing up everybody does (Trina and Steve!
"Anything you want, baby, I love you!" Cara!
Though there were some good messages here, I didn't love the repeating theme that all teen sex is normal and fine, just use a condom. I'm sure I was more sensitive to it as my 13-year-old was reading it to me, but I still think that's irresponsible in a book so very clearly geared to tweens. Hearing this story was akin to being trapped in a 12-year-old's silly fantasy: intelligence-insulting and way too long.
And perhaps that's what my problem with it is.The plot is pretty generic, good girl Jen's life is changed when movie star Luke Striker shows up in her small town and shakes up things.
She wasn't terrible, but I just don't see her Luke let alone Scott.As for Scott, the love interest in the novel, I didn't like him as much as some of Cabot's other heros.
Plus, did I mention it had a nice message that wasn't overly preachy.
Still though, despite Luke's lack of a role to the story, I liked that it wasn't cliche.Worst Feature: Meh. As far as Meg Cabot novels go, this is a good book.
This book makes being "just the nice girl" seem like the worst thing in the world.
I kind of understood the point Cabot was trying to make, about not being a pushover who's always just fueling the negatives when they're really trying to make things better, but it seemed that the main character was becoming a jerk.Teen Idol is not fully what you would expect if you look at the back cover.
You should never be struggling to understand a book like this, but at times I caught myself trying to keep things straight simply because it was like a math problem, with parentheses within parentheses within brackets.After all that, I have to say the story had some nice twists and somewhat complex characters.
You see, Jen is the secret advisor, Annie, who people go to to solve their personal relationships.
She does the layout and the other secret thing (being Annie) for the Clayton High School Register in Clayton, Indiana.
Jen thought that Luke was going to be coming in like a week -- not the very next day!
But will Luke turn out to be someone Jen didn't think he was going to be?
I personally think that Meg Cabot's books are really good and just right on with the every day life of teens.
Sweet and romantic. I found it extremely satisfying. This is one of those reads when after a tiring day, you just lean back against your couch, prop your feet up on a stool and start to read. It was nice to see that the heroine- a character who always has to be the "nice" person, grow up into someone who can actually take a stand. I found Luke and Scott extremely lovable as well; they're just perfect.
Jen Greenley, an ordinary junior in her small Indiana school, is the anonymous student newspaper columnist Ask Annie.
Because she can keep a secret so well, the school administration asks her to keep some exciting news on the down-low: Luke Striker, 19-year-old Hollywood celebrity, is coming to their small town for two weeks to research a role, and want her to be his student guide.
Her writing is also very conversational, which helps Jen/Mia to sound like a typical 17-year-old, but can be pretty irritating.
Probably 80% of her sentences started off with "And" "So" "Anyway" and "But." Still, short cute read, nice palette cleanser before going on to something heavier.
Very good. Please try it! I loved it. Girl next door gets to be a movie star's school guide, discovers her love has been with her all along.
Dear Annie,I love him. He doesn't know I'm alive. What do I do now?Desperate-Dear Desperate,When you figure that out, could you please let me know?Because I haven't the foggiest idea.Annie Jen Jen's your typical 'girl-next-door.' She's nice, she's caring and she will always be there to wipe your tears. Jen was, what you would call, a 'goody-two-shoes,' and could get away with a few things.Luke, a teenage heart throb, and once he got to know her a little, had told Jen that she could make a differ
Jen was, what you would call, a 'goody-two-shoes,' and could get away with a few things.Luke, a teenage heart throb, and once he got to know her a little, had told Jen that she could make a difference to the school, which happened to lack respect and courtesy.She was on the school newspaper because she was "Ask Annie" and gave advice to those who sent for help.
Jen actually had a truthful and trustful nature, maing it easier for people to like her.At times, her advice was funny and I think her responses were pretty good.
He, and a few other staff members, knew that "Ask Annie" was in fact Jen.I actually liked Scott.
I really enjoyed it! It was quite different to the books I usually read but I'm quite happy I ventured outside the box. The ending really surprised me and I can't say I liked it very much but overall, this book was interesting and exciting! :D
Even better than The Princess Diaries series, TEEN IDOL is the story about a girl-next-door who learns to use her influence to change the world.
If it had been anyone else being the guide, “Lucas’” secret would have been out and at the mercy of the high school’s extremely silly girls, including Jenny’s best friend, super-devoted fan Trina.Through unforeseeable circumstances, Luke's real identity is exposed, and he jets it back to Hollywood--and safety.
Before he goes, however, he gives Jenny a challenge: everybody likes her, why not use her power to inflict social change at her high school?
You know what I mean?
Both Scott and Luke were ok as far as Young Adult male characters go (so many are creepy stalker asshats) but both were pretty underdeveloped and bland.Seriously?
I'm a vegan, so this kinda thing really ticks me off.Jen's voice really irritated me.
For some who claims to be as well read as her, she sure usually a lot of junk words.
Like, you know, I mean.
Seriously, I almost didn't finish the book because of it.
Well, I did like mentions of famous books and writers.
And the book wasn't Terrible....
I don’t know if it’s supposed to be funny or what, but having the character say, “I mean” after everything she says like we can’t follow a simple sentence is annoying.
Does she think we’ve forgotten the topic of conversation in a second’s time?I won’t be reading any more of her books, except maybe the series with Hades if my library gets it in, but otherwise I’m staying away from the rest of her books, with unlikeable characters, bad writing style, barely any of a plot, and unrealistic occurrences with movie stars, actresses, models and every type of fanciful thing that makes for a slightly childish book.
The only reason I continued reading this book when I started it was because I had high expectations...Until I found myself on the last page.The plot BORED me.
Which she is bad at.This book would've been so much more better is she told her bestie about Luke Striker/Lucas Smith and then her bestie would tell everyone else.Why did people start calling Cara a cow in the first place?
If she did, Cara would've been better ages ago.This random teacher has a mental disorder and is obsessed with a doll.
And she should put her precious doll in a safer place.Didn't anyone think about asking Lucas/Luke about his sunglasses?
Meg Cabot’s “Teen Idol” was one of the most relatable books I’ve ever read.
In this book Jenny has to try to keep teen star, Luke’s, identity a secret.
I’ve never been able to relate to a book as much as I do now.
Just like Jenny, I often help a lot of people with their problems.
In this book both of the lead characters fall for unexpected people.
In this book the lead female, Jenny, has to help so many people with their problems, that she doesn’t have time for her own.
Just like me, Jenny is a people pleaser.
OMG this book is amazing. As soon as I started I wanted Jen with Scott. I like Luke's character he was funny, I wasn't a fan of Trina and Geri Lynn. But the book was funny and really good. I'm so happy Scott and Jen are together and how Jen was actually speaking her mind. Luke with Geri Lynn was a surprise but that means Jen can be with Scott so yay!! :)
Not as good as I remember. But won't change my rating because my 15 year old self loved it & I owe her my loyalty.
Teen Idol is we’re high school junior Jenny Greeley is so good at keeping secrets that she’s the school newspapers anonymous advice columnist.
She saw in plain daylight that the seniors were pulling a prank on the teacher by taking her doll.
The book makes me start thinking about a senior prank to pull on one of my old teachers, but none of them have a doll that they dress up kinda like a class pet.
The character, Jenny Greeley, is she could have told lots of people about this, but she is keeping her promise to not tell anyone to the seniors so they can pull of their prank.
The concept of this one wasn't bad, kinda cute in a pop culture teen soap way, but the book itself wasn't very good. I disliked all of the characters and only found one moment even remotely funny, the rest was tiresome nonsense.
Ok, I’m probably a bit old for this book but I really enjoyed listening to this one. It was a cute teen high school story that was full of good lessons and many “aww” moments. I’ll be checking out more of Meg Cabot for when I need a little pick me up :)
My #1 Meg Cabot book for no deeper reasons but the fact that I just really like it. MC has a great ability to make first person narratives actually bearable, and even, enjoyable.
very good, page turner
Boy, do I love Met Cabot. This was entertaining fun and my brain feels rested after it.
What I didn't like was the ending....mostly.I shall now begin ranting.So I'm a total sucker for books where the snotty stuck-up celebrity/popular person falls in love with the normal-ish everyday main character.Before you ask, yes that did happen in the book.....but was it with our main character Jenny Greenley?
WHO THE HELL FALLS IN LOVE OVER THE FREAKING PHONE?Yes people that is EXACTLY what happened.Our beautifully handsome sexy and kind male celebrity Luke Striker was phoning Geri very often to check on Jenny, and then their conversations slowly switched to talking about Geri and then Geri/Luke combo.
So, before I go on about my likes and dislikes on this book, here is what I predicted:I was expecting that the main character, Jenny Greenley, was going to complain (or just talk) about her life and how easy-going (or rather boring) it was—that is, until some famous star shows up at her high school and made her life topsy-turvy, too much for her to handle.
But just as soon as he arrives, she slowly starts to fall in love with him, starting by his charm.But once I read this book, boy was I wrong.1) Jenny Greenley is not the type to complain about how boring her life was.
