https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1254951.The_Luxe
Maybe at this moment you're checking my rating and thinking, "What the fuck?!"I'm going to tell you something: I enjoy reading shallow, trashy books.
. .I don't know exactly what made me interested in these books, but one thing is for sure: That dress is beautiful!
I was only interested on what this book was going to contain.The main protagonists, Elizabeth and Diana Holland, are the major socialites of Manhattan.
I only recommend this series if you enjoy reading catty characters.P.S. Did you really expect these books to be exquisite historical fiction?
The Luxe is about turn of the century New York socialites falling in love and misbehaving. New York's darling debutant, Elizabeth Holland is poised to marry one of the most eligible (and debaucherous) bachelors in the city, but her perfect life is not what it seems.  The Luxe reads like Gossip Girl meets Edith Wharton. Sadly, it has all of the shallowness and poor writing of the former, with little of the intelligence and power of the latter. For realsies. Read the rest of my thoughts on The Luxe HERE.
When their father dies, the girls move away to get educated about being a proper lady and when they come back, they find out that things don’t look too good for the Holland family.
It’s like this: Anna Godbersen wanted to portray a perfect girl that didn’t have a perfect life after all (the most common storyline ever beside the love-hate relationships type) and rather than making Elizabeth her main character, she made her into a depressed girl.
He’s such an arrogant ass) between Elizabeth-Will-Lina and Diana-Henry-Penelope, or the fact that the girls wear gowns and everyone rides horses, then this probably is the book for you.

Sorry, but I can't go on reading this drivel. Maybe I am too spoiled by Edith Wharton and know too much about Gilded Age mores to enjoy this book. I know that young men and women of that time simply do not behave, talk, or live the way Godbersen portrays in her books. If you take the historical setting out of the story, what's left is a who-will-hook-up-with-who kind of trash. If I ever want to read that, I'll pick up Gossip Girls. Beautiful cover though...
So I'd be lying if I said I was oozing with excitement to read this book.
In fact, I put off reading it for just about a year.
A really good friend of mine recommended me this book and told me I'd absolutely love it but when I bought the book, I let it gather dust in the corner of my bookshelf.
There are two reasons why I put off reading this for so long: One, because its a Historical Romance.
I cannot even begin to tell people how much I HATE (okay, hate is a strong word, but seriously, I don'
I understand that this is difficult to do, especially when a writer wants to incorporate more than one voice in the novel but at the same time, I feel almost shut off from everyone.So then finally, one year later, I picked this book up because the book I wanted to buy wasn't coming out until Saturday, I didn't feel like reading anything else, and I had only a minute to choose a book before I had to leave.And, oh my god yeek I loved this book!
Elizabeth Holland, the darling of the high society set, has returned from her year in Paris in time for the first ball of the season, held at her best friend Penelope Hayes' newly finished and incredibly vulgar mansion.
The day after the ball, he proposes to Elizabeth and is accepted (even though her heart belongs to the young coachman, Will, whom her maid, Lina, also loves), because Henry's family has money and the Holland family now has none - which no one know about except them.
I hate, hate, HATE books that are suppose to be set in one time period but they have the behavor of someone in a different time period.
If I didn't know better, I would have thought that this books was set in the present time.
I thought "How could such a pretty book not be good?" I always thought that not judging a book by its cover was about ugly books being good, but now I know better.
However, if you like mindless stories, and don't care about historical accuracy, this will be a great book for you.
The villainess bitchy girl, the little sister, the rich cad, all get more detailed character development, but I had a hard time getting into them as well, because they weren't immediately likable.
By the end, I had some definite favorites, and I am excited to read the sequel and find out what happens to everybody, but it wasn't until the last chapter that I really started to care about the characters.
From the first chapter I couldn't put it down, waiting to see if my suspicions (it starts out with a funeral and then goes back to the month leading up to the tragic death) were correct.
Ich habe mich richtig gewundert, wo die 400 Seiten auf einmal abgeblieben sind, als ich das Buch zugeschlagen habe.
Die Geschichte steigt prompt interessant ein mit dem Begräbnis der Protagonistin und man fragt sich, wie es dazu kommen konnte.
Die Auflösung ist extrem schnell sehr naheliegend, aber es geht hier ja auch nicht um eine Detektivgeschichte.
Ich fühlte mich geradezu befriedigend bestätigt, als alles so ausging, wie ich mir das gedacht hatte.Das Buch ist auf jeden Fall für alle diejenigen was, die eine Geschichte à la Gossip Girl 100 Jahre zuvor erleben wollen und für eine gewisse Zeit ihrem Leben so entkommen wollen...
One big love triangle between Henry Schoonmaker, Diana Holland, Will Kellar, Elizabeth Holland, Penelope Hayes, Lina Broad, and Teddy.
The Holland family begins losing money, forcing Elizabeth into an engagment with the charming casanova, Henry Schonnmocker.
There's a few problems with that however:Penelope has a delusional infatuation with Henry but Henry is having a love struck affair with Elzabeth's younger sister, Diana.
Lina Broad has been the Holland family's maid for years, ever since childhood.
Diana is also crushed by having to distant herself from Henry, and all the while Henry's best friend, Teddy, comes clean about his long time love for his friend's fiance, Elizabeth.
This book is like Gossip Girl set in the late 19th century. Normally that would be fun for me since books like those are my guilty pleasure, but this was not as fun. I loved the time period this was set in as well as Godberson's description of their wardrobe and settings, but I never really got attached to the characters nor was I really invested in the story. I saw that ending a mile away along with many other things in this book. It was predictable to say the least.
Beautiful Elizabeth Holland, lovely, prim, proper and of course a lady.
When Elizabeth learns that her family’s welfare is in jeopardy she agrees to wed Henry Schoonmaker, a well-known playboy and heartbreaker, even though she loves another.
Henry of course finds himself falling in love, finally, but not with his betrothed.
Elizabeth struggles with her own happiness and the welfare of her family.Throw in a jealous maid that knows too much and you have yourself a full-blown scandal!I loved The Luxe.
That's when William Shoonmaker comes to their mother with a proposition.
Elizabeth agrees, even though she is in love with another man whom her maid, Lina, is also in love with.
To make matters worse, her best friend, Penelope Hayes, is in love with Henry Shoonmaker.
Now, feeling back stabbed, Penelope and Lina will stop at nothing to get rid of Elizabeth once and for all.
I found the book to be quite boring and was originally going to only give it 2 stars.
Penelope especially, she is so cruel and I loved every second of it.
Filled with backstabbing, manipulation, betrayal and drama, but surprisingly there is more depth than I originally anticipated, there is humor, heart, romance and duty to one's family, station and heart."The girls of her class were slaves to rules, going about life—if you could call it that—like bloodless mannequins."Godbersen starts off each chapter with an excerpt from the society pages, newspaper article, books on decorum and a how to guide for lady's maids.
People in New York expect her to marry well and continue the traditions of high society.Life for Elizabeth isn't easy though, even though all she has to do is sit around and look beautiful.
Mrs. Holland thinks Elizabeth can save the family by marrying Henry Schoonmaker – New York's most eligible and most sought after bachelor.The news of her impending engagement is a surprise to Elizabeth.
Elizabeth has been having a secret relationship with Will Keller for many years.
Elizabeth's secret relationship with Will isn't the only thing that becomes more difficult after the wedding becomes public.
Another Christmas gift, and one I wanted to read very much when it first came out, but shied away from somewhat after reading several reviews comparing it to the Gossip Girl series and stating that the writing left rather a lot to be desired.
Everyone assumes Henry and Elizabeth would be perfect together, while Penelope is determined to have him for herself.
It's hypnotic.The story spends time going back and forth between five Victorian teens: Elizabeth, Henry, Penelope, Lina, and Diana (Elizabeth's younger, much more likable sister).
So I was reading it for Diana and Henry.
Scandal and intrigue on the upper east side in Manhattan, New York!
A main character who you want to be happy for.
I kind of wished the romance between said main character and her certain lover was developed.
I also did like the author's narrative style, I learned a few new words for my vocabulary :) If it weren't for the huge reveal in the beginning I would have ultimately put this book down, but now that I read it to the end, I'm still invested in reading the next book because of that little cliffhanger.
Gossip Girl meets The Age of Innocence. Except that there's not really any Age of Innocence here. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
First, I can't believe that this is considered Youth Fiction! It definitely read like it was written for a teenage audience, but there was way too much sex, even if it was only ever implied. It was incredibly predictable and the characters were extremely unlikable. Beware, moms of teenage girls, this book was recommended to me as the "next big thing".
Right.
How the f$#% do I review this book?
I couldn't even bring myself to finish it.
I mean I liked it, okay I didn't really like it.
Maybe I would have...if I had started the book at the begining and not 60 pages into it...oh well.
I didn't and that is why this is less a review and more a rant about why I couldn't bring myslef to even finish the book.
Reasons: 1.
Although I did like the quiz at the end (My friend Leesa and I were bored in ceramics and I had the book in my
I didn't and that is why this is less a review and more a rant about why I couldn't bring myslef to even finish the book.
Although I did like the quiz at the end (My friend Leesa and I were bored in ceramics and I had the book in my bad, so we took the quiz on what character we were most like...the results were interesting...).
Back to the annoying characters, they were really annyoing.
But I didn't like Gossip Girl and I really couldn't bring myself to even finish this one.
I saw a lot of mixed reviews for this book, and I understand why, but I personally really enjoyed reading it. It's not a very deep story, but it doesn't pretend to be either. It's a little shallow but very entertaining, which is why I didn't even realize how quickly I was going through the story. If you enjoy reading about gossip, drama, backstabbing, period settings and pretty dresses without too much substance every once in a while, I'd recommend this book. It's a lot of fun.
DNF at 20% - just couldn't do it. The plot was boring, the characters were annoying and they just whined all the time. I'm sorry but I just couldn't finish it.
The story goes a little something like this - Elizabeth is this amazing beauty, she's prim and proper and considered a true lady (I wonder sometimes what i'd be classed as if I lived in this era and then fall about laughing).
The only scenes I enjoyed were those of Diana (a girl with backbone and too much life to ever be contained in a ballroom or a fancy dancy dress) and those of Henry (who I will admit was a complete and utter asshat, though he was dashing which moved him up in my estimations)Ultimately, this book made me feel like I was waiting.
GG had none of that- the perspective jumped around within a single scene, and seemed more focused on titillating its audience with sex, drinking, drugs, and high end clothing that with telling any sort of story or developing characters in any way beyond what they were wearing and who they were screwing.
I'm not a prude (I like my smut good and smutty), but I do think there is a difference between writing for 13-17 year old girls, and for adults.Overall, I'd say this book isn't one that's going to cross the generation gap well, but it's a fun, appropriate read for teens looking for something that has all the best things about GG and none of the worst.
UGH I was looking forward to this series, and it was a major let down for me.Before I get started I will say, that I could see how some people really liked this series, it just wasn't my cup of tea.
I just didn't like the main character Elizabeth, she sucked the worst in my opinion.
She was literally the most selfish bitch, but acted like she wasn't.
Henry the main love interest/bachelor was a FUCK BOI, and Will was an asshole for leading Lena on.
However she didn't win, and was constantly judged and looked down on by the other equally selfish and doubly fake characters.
I don't know if I'll be going back forthe other three books.
I don't like period novels, but if you're going to do something you ought to do it right damn it.
We have girls running around for secret midnight affairs, when in reality anyone discovering any of this could've ruined their prospects for the rest of their lives.The novel is richly descriptive.
Sometimes the description slowed down the story, but it never totally pulled me out of it.I don't really like big cliffhanging novels.
It felt a bit like someone dragging me by my hair toward the next book -- just a little too much.
I can't believe that I'm about to rate a book based on the characters over the story itself.The Luxe as a read felt like historical fiction meets Gossip Girls.
Unashamedly, I found myself starting to love the book about midway through, to my complete surprise.Each chapter rotated viewpoints between one of several girls featured in The Luxe.
I can't wait to see more of Diana in future books.I give the first half of The Luxe a 2 star rating because it took me a few chapters to warm up to the author's writing style.
After reading the first two books in the "Bright Young Things" series and loving them, I was so excited to find out Anna Godbersen had another series!I actually loved The Luxe a little bit more than BYT!
The way the story starts out at Elizabeth Holland's funeral, just sets you up to trying to solve the mystery the entire story.
I felt so bad for Elizabeth throughout the entire story and the horrible situation she was put in.
I just felt sorry for Claire, having to always having to deal with Lina.
I can't wait to read the next book in the series (:
Estava frustrada porque não conseguia aceder a coisas que as movessem, para além de intrigas e romances pouco calorosos e apetecíveis.A estes ingredientes ainda lhes podemos juntar a forma bastante aborrecida com que a autora decidiu apresentar-nos os acontecimentos.
Há pouca envolvência nas coisas que se vão sucedendo e eu não senti entrega da autora à escrita desta história.O final, para além do seu lado previsível (tendo em conta o prólogo que nos é apresentado que nos faz deduzir o que ali se poderá passar), não traz entusiasmo nem surpresa.Posso dizer-vos que foi uma leitura bastante penosa e que não me deixou com muita vontade de continuar a ler livros da série.
