https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/390580.The_Enid_Blyton_Book_of_Fairies
One of the first Blyton books I read.
The five stars from my enchanted childhood self.I still remember some of the stories, about the toad who created a stool ("toadstool" - get it?) and the girl who changed into a cat.
Her name was Cathy, but by the time she finished "C", "A" and "T" she was a cat!) I finished it in one evening during summer vacation, curled up on a sofa in our drawing room, where all the family were chatting after dinner.
I still remember being so absorbed in the stories that I missed my bedtime (9:00 P.
I probably first read this about 35 years ago and have had vague memories of a pixie rolling ribbons, a toad inventing a stool, Giant Certain-Sure wearing a necklace as a ring tickling the back of my mind ever since.
A recent conversation over too much wine about childhood reading reached the shores of Enid Blyton, and whilst trading Mallory Towers and Famous Five memories, it all came back to me.
My chums' blank faces made me wonder if I had imagined it though, or mis-attributed the stories to her, but a trawl of the internet found one lone reference to a ribbon-rolling pixie.
I was a voracious reader as a child having entire series of "The Baby Sitter's Club", "Sweet Valley Kids", and "Sweet Valley High School", but nothing sparked my imagination like Enid Blyton.
I would recommend her to anyone and everyone who liked reading and asked what I was reading.
The way her short stories sparked my imagination impacted me more than I let on.
They were parables like Disney animated movies in printed words and I would get lost in them for hours until my mother would call me for dinner.
I would put Enid Blyton to the level of Roald Dahl and Dr. Suess.
I loved this book as a child. Enid Blyton is one of my favorite authors!
Remember the bit about the sound grasshoppers make being because they are grinding knives and not a great deal else, unlike some seem to but I remember I liked the book overall! :)
Nostalgia city for some half forgotten stories- a nice bedtime read!
Early Blyton book about the world of fairies is pretty lame in parts, and in others the typical vengeance to the wrong doer the Blyton cast upon her characters. Pretty average.
Not the fairies that tend to catch my interest15 January 2013 You can tell this is a kids book because fairy is spelt 'fairy' as opposed to 'faerie' (though the picture on the cover and the fact that Enid Blyton wrote the book are also dead giveaways). I have noticed though that when you are dealing with children's literature it is fairy as opposed to fae (which is the plural of faerie and a word of Celtic origin). The original fae were not nice people, and in many cases they were demonic. In fa
I have noticed though that when you are dealing with children's literature it is fairy as opposed to fae (which is the plural of faerie and a word of Celtic origin).
However there are some morality tales in this book as well, probably to scare children into being good when they are read to at bedtime (don't tell lies because if you tell lies the fairies will take you to a land where nobody will believe a word you tell them, unless of course you are lying then they will believe you).
I have fond memories of this book.
At the local chairty book cafie I found this book it was intrueing even to me a kid strugflinff to read.
Within the week I was captivated.
Withen the next week I wanted more.
The stories were liks nothing else I had ever read they wont all coated in pink and glitter they were stromg, they met creatures like elves and knomes.
This book would be amazing for most kids (and even some teens).
Unlike a lot of kids books children do get ounished.
Words like ediot are used.
So many memories! I love Enid Blyton, and I love this book and all the fairy adventures. It took me a while to get used to reading a kids book again but once I did it was great. It is one of the most magical books I have read.
I think I won this as a prize and therefore read it and really enjoyed it; it forms a vivid part of my childhood. It was not the kind of book I would naturally have chosen for myself; I considered fairies too soppy and preferred stories about horses..
very good children's book but the language needs to be updated. very un PC
I read this ages ago but I think it was entertaining. It helped start my love of reading so it must have been good.
My favourite book as a child
