https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854413.Act_One
Novice playwright Moss Hart and Broadway master George Kaufman worked daily for weeks, months, to excise words and scenes, conjure better ones only to toss them out, and ultimately craft a storyline with dialogue that would do that elusive and mysterious of all things: delight a capricious audience.
It’s a style that reflects one of the lessons he and Kaufman learned as they endlessly rewrote Once in a Lifetime, the first of several plays on which they collaborated in the 1930s: the need to balance onstage noise with quiet scenes that allow the audience to absorb and reflect.A child of the Bronx, where often there wasn’t enough food for his small family, Hart also provides readers with a view of the grinding hardship of poverty and its psychological consequences.
Published in 1959, Act One tells the story of Hart's life growing up in poverty in early 20th century New York and his struggle to make it as a playwright.
There are also subtle lessons to be learned from how Moss confronts his obstacles that can be universally applied.Hart's devotion as he delved deeper into the world of theater only makes him work harder.
All these lessons are things to be picked up and applied to anyone's life.(view spoiler)[The book ends with Hart's first big success.
Hart writes,"I took one quick look around to keep the memory of that room forever verdant and then walked to each window and threw it wide open.
I truly enjoyed this memoir of Moss Hart's early days in the theatre.
I had seen the Great Performances broadcast of the Lincoln Center stage version, which I thought was extremely well done.
Hart writes beautifully, and it was a treat to have a look at the inner working of the theatre as it was in the 1930s.
A lot of the second half of the book is about the long road to Broadway of his first hit, Once in a Lifetime.
A great book for any old theatre bum like myself!
Moss Hart is a Broadway legend.
Act One is about his early years and how he made it to Broadway.
There was nothing easy about it, but Hart tells his story with grace and humor.
I know that he died about two years after this book was published (1959).
One thing is for sure--Broadway would not be as bright without the talent of Moss Hart.
Thankfully, he left behind the story of his struggles and assured us that nothing can deter real talent and drive.
Here's to you, Moss!
Lovely theatrical autobiography, a genre to which I have a minor addiction (only old ones; no interest in autobiographies of anyone who hasn't hit their seventies by now, and most of the best ones are by people who died at least ten years ago and/or in their nineties).
Moss Hart was obviously a nice man, as well as a talented one, and that helps a lot: a little bitchy gossip is nice, but who wants to read a whole book of real-life but long ago whining, complaining, or gossiping?
Oh, and another nice thing: obviously a man who enjoyed money and fame to the hilt.
Ann Patchett recommended this book at ALA this year.
This autobiography chronicles his early impoverished years through the success of his first Broadway play, "Once in a Lifetime".
It was a little slow going at first but once I made it to his stories about working as a social director at a ramshackle summer camp I was hooked.
I struggled along with him as he tried to perfect his play and cheered when he ultimately found success.
This is a book about the life of a playwright, family loyalty, perseverance, mentoring, luck, timing, hard work, and success.
This is the ultimate portrayal of the Great American success story, going from rags to riches from pure hard work and passion. A must read for any theater junkie, especially those into the golden age of Broadway. Only gets 4 stars as it lags in certain parts, but if you persevere, the reward is great at the end. I actually picked it up based on a recommendation in Julie Andrew's memoir (Moss Hart staged My Fair Lady). It is a shame this book has gone out of print, as it highlights a wonderful American success with great story telling.
Some books are enjoyable and some are like a really nice confection. In the department of autobiography, this is one of my favorite recent reads. The writing style is engaging and the story is compelling. I would recommend this to any aspiring playwrights as a lesson in persistence and pursuing your dreams. For those who like knowing more about the immigrant experience, this may be for you as well. Moss Hart may no longer be seen among the greatest of the greats in his profession, but his autobiography definitely is worth reading.
Everyone interested in the theatre should read this book. Moss Hart is an amazing writer, there are so many passages that are very quotable. You can tell he loves the theatre and what he was doing with all his heart. It was wonderful to read about his journey, with all its ups and downs and to finally have a success in the end.
Easy read about the NYC Broadway world of the 1930's and Moss Hart's entry into it from a childhood of poverty in the Bronx.His basic lesson from life seems to have been, Money (gained doing what I love) makes me happy. I enjoyed being in the world of 80 years ago for a while. He painted pictures really well and wrote with a light yet reflective hand.
Delightful fun for theater geeks.
loved every word of this memoir...by Moss Hart. Beautiful and moving..and lots of great humor too...I wish he wrote Act Two and Act Three...
“Stage-struck”: From poverty to Broadway (Bronx/Brooklyn, NY, 1914 to 1930): Beautifully written storytelling that stayed on the bestseller list over forty weeks when first published in 1959 – a book with devotees in and out of the theatrical world – is too good for Enchanted Prose to pass up because it’s not fiction.
Boredom is the keynote of poverty – of all its dignities, it is perhaps the hardest of all to live with – for where there is no money there is no change of any kind, not of scene or of routine.”Poverty intensified Hart’s passion for Broadway at a time when it flourished in the 1920s, with some 70 theatres.
This is so much the case that this book is nearly impossible to read without experiencing resonances with other glimpses of mid-20th century New York City, ranging from "42nd Street" to the toils of Lieber & Stoller to the tenements haunted by the likes of Richard Feynman, Spike Lee, or Woody Allen.Which brings me to Neil Simon, he of Brighton Beach Memoirs and Rewrites, both of which I have reviewed elsewhere on GoodReads, and both of which more or less ruined me for Moss Hart.
Unfortunately, Hart writes it like this: Is success in any other profession as dazzling, as deeply satisfying, as it is in the theatre?
As a playwright, Moss Hart reigned on Broadway for a couple of decades, writing such gems as 'The Man Who Came to Dinner' and 'You Can't Take It With You' with partner George S Kaufman.
It's not a 'tell all,' and far from 'dissing' on colleagues and big names, Hart's book is a love song to the theatre and to the remarkable people who were part of Broadway's heyday.
(I didn't know most of them!) But it does help if you love the theatre, enjoy the creative process, and want to know how it feels to shepherd a show from a dreadful out-of-town preview to a smashing success on Broadway.
I shamefully knew nothing of Moss Hart before my dad gifted this to me last Christmas, and I am very grateful to him for opening my eyes to an incredible go-getter.
Moss Hart was in a word, sublime.
Moss Hart's relationship with George Kaufman, which occasionally left me questioning whether Moss had had a romantic attachment to the playwright, was incredible to read, especially given how Moss was able to slowly chip away at Kaufman's withholding exterior, to a softy..well, not quite, but close to one.
Starting with his childhood in NYC suburbs and his fascination with theatre, his humorous adventures as social director in several summer camps, and his determination to get into the theatre business whichever way he could, eventually through playwriting.
There were some great moments throughout like his first tea party at Kaufman's with guests that included George Gershwin, Dorothy Parker, and Helen Hayes etc.
If you enjoy theatre, are curious about how theatrical productions are put together, & the golden age of Broadway, you will discover a man who did not give up, despite pitfalls and poverty, until his dreams came true.
A poignant theatrical memoir that tells of playwright Moss Hart's rise from poverty in the Bronx to being the the toast of Broadway at age 26.
Hart speaks of the struggle to create, having the wisdom to seize opportunity when it presents itself, and the overwhelming joy an author feels when an audience loudly and enthusiastically embraces his work for the first time.
Reading this memoir made me feel as if I was watching a simply elegant work of art unfolding before my eyes who's beauty left me smiling and in tears.
This book was a treat and delight to read.
I've had it for years, and deeply respect Moss Hart's directorial work.
It is an immersive, human book with such a deep, flowing passion running through it.
The goal is clear, and the path something that makes you want to root for Moss Hart's success, even though, if you're reading this, you probably already know that it comes, and its scale.
It is no less sweet, however, once he's hit that success, and triumphantly moves his family from the Bronx into Manhattan and carries on into the future.
This book is fantastic. I was reading a recent actor's autobiography at the same time and it could not compare. This story takes you on the fantastic journey of Moss Hart as he struggles to write and follow through with his dreams. I read a part of it every night.The writing is engaging and it's beautifully written. A wonderful story to read even if you are not in the entertainment business. I plan to periodically reread this.
This book was sitting on my family bookshelf all through my childhood.
At some point it made it to my first apartment, and then was packed and moved with me from state to state.
All while I had never opened the cover!
Not sure why I never got around to reading it, but am certainly glad I finally did.
I read in some other book that Act One was the best book ever written on Broadway, and I have to agree.
It all adds up to exactly the type of book I like to read.
I decided to read this book since I am performing in a community theatre production of the play of the same name. This is a fascinating book about the 'golden age' of Broadway, what it takes to write and produce a Broadway show, and a heartwarming autobiography about a journey from deep poverty to fame and fortune. James Lapine did a fantastic job with the play staying true to the story and the tone of the book. I would recommend this book to anybody who loves theatre.
I love autobiographies, as I can get to hear the voice of the author and get to know him/her, not just someone's opinion. Show biz autobios by nature can be tiresomely heavy on name dropping; not this one. This is one terrific story of how a run of the mill kid from lower income NY rose to the top of his profession.
I never would have heard of this one if it wasn’t for an article in “Vanity Fair” a few years ago. Truly for the theater geek, this is a first hand account of getting a Broadway play written and into production. I enjoyed the early parts of Hart’s life and career, but the play production got a bit tedious for me. Very readable and well-written.
This is a terrific, page-turner story of Moss Hart’s path from poverty in the Bronx to success on Broadway. On another level, it’s wonderful to learn social history through this first person account- about Broadway in the 20s, the Borscht Belt, and creative collaboration. As an autobiography, it’s not the whole story. You can read articles online about his mental illness and sexuality.
In his positively delightful memoir, Hart takes you through his youth at the top of the 20th century all the way through his first Broadway hit. An absolute joy to read for any American theatre history nerd.
One for the theatre aficionados!
Great great great.
Wonderful tales of early 20th century live theatre, and a head-shaking look at an America that no longer exists.
Loved it, classic rags to riches tale well told and full of the rich NY theatrical history I was looking for.
