https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92143.Bone
It's a case of out of the frying pan and into the fire when war erupts around the valley and the cousins and their new friends are caught in the middle...Back in the 1990s, this book was the talk of the town but I was too cool for a comic book about cute characters.
However, I quickly got attached to the antics of the Bone cousins and loved Gran'ma Ben. Both of my grandmas were tough ladies so she quickly became my favorite character.
Bone deserves all the awards it has won over the years, an epic tale for all ages.
That was my first roundaboutly clever way of saying omg omg omg Jeff Smith is a fucking genius.Here is my second, and it involves a visual aid: Just prior to the below panel, Bone has been told (by several people) that "winter comes on fast in these parts." Then what happens?
I would say a similar thing happens in Bone, where it starts out all kind of silly fun and games, but the book and the plot and the characters all elevate and expand as things proceed, opening and blooming into this vast, mature epic scope.Also, not only does this book pass the Bechdel Test (with flying colors), it's basically all women.
Not only have I done very little reading in the graphic novel genre, but I’ve heard a lot of very good things about this one.
He not only did this virtually on his own, but managed to release something serialized that he could never change, had to plot and pace over ten years time, and had to bring together into one massive story at the end.The restraints of the medium considered, he did an excellent job.
All and all, I can see why this has been named as one of the top ten graphic novels of our time.
I've read comics (or graphic novels) at three points in my life so far.
It's laugh out loud funny.I guess one of the reasons why I stopped reading Marvel comics was the secondary status of many of the female characters as well as the fact that whenever a female got too powerful, she had a "power" issue - something that Magneto, at time if ever, really had.
What then follows is part Lord of the Rings, part comic book action, mostly epic fantasy with slapstick thrown in at the right moments.
(I personally loved all the Moby Dick jokes myself.The epic combines the best part of an epic fantasy story with the best part of a good comic book.
I loved this comic book. The art style reminded me of Belgian comics of my childhood and the story... I must say should be worthy of Tolkien.
A friend gave the Bone single volume collection to me a gift one year.
I wasn't familiar with the series prior to that but had just finished a semester of graduate english lit courses that focused on cultural studies and serial fiction.
Bone is Lord of the Rings meets Dickens.
I would recommend this to comic and graphic novel lovers, serialized fiction lovers...
anyone who likes to read really.
It looks intimidating because the book is so hefty, but it'll rest nicey on any coffee table or nightstand wihout clashing with the decor of the room until you can read through to the end.
I thought, okay, weird little guys with big noses, lost in the woods, this is going to be goofy humor with throw-away gags. (And what ARE these guys, anyways? I never did figure that one out - there's a whole other story waiting to be told about that.)And then, it turned into an epic! With kingdoms, royalty in exile, and battles, and life and death danger stuff! AWESOME!I liked this better than the Lord of the Rings. Shhh. Don't tell the Tolkienites.
Iskreno mogu da pričaju o bilo kakvim glupostima pa će meni biti zabavno da čitam sto strana :)Priče koje pratimo su u suštini dve različite; jedna o pokušajima familije Bone da se vrate kući i druga i daleko klasičnija fatazijska priča o sukobima dve rase i izabranom ko će pomoći da se sukob reši.
Suptilan i iznenadan tako da sam sebe često hvatao da se smejem ko lud, a to se nedešava često i naročito ne u štivu koje nije predstavljeno kao humorističko..Ako bi morao da uporedim ovo sa nekim filmom najsličniji bi bio Smrtonosno Oružije ako va treba neka ideja kakva vrsta priče vas očekuje po tonu.Sve u svemu svaka preporuka čak i ako niste ljubitelj stripova.
Smith's evocative and energetic drawings tell an enthusiastic and deeply-felt mini-epic. His simple chiaroscuro backgrounds create a fantastical but very real world. His strange cartoons mix with caricatures of realism to produce an easy-to-understand psychological reality. However his very strong characterization sometimes falls prey to simple archetype, which weakens the story and the suspension of disbelief. Otherwise a thoroughly enjoyable, funny, endearing, and exciting read. My Suggested R
Smith's evocative and energetic drawings tell an enthusiastic and deeply-felt mini-epic. His simple chiaroscuro backgrounds create a fantastical but very real world. His strange cartoons mix with caricatures of realism to produce an easy-to-understand psychological reality. However his very strong characterization sometimes falls prey to simple archetype, which weakens the story and the suspension of disbelief. Otherwise a thoroughly enjoyable, funny, endearing, and exciting read.
  My Suggested Readings in Comics
I pretty much had to run back immediately to the library to get out the remaining volumes, because his 8 year-old sister started devouring this epic at the rate of 150 pages/day (and I too wanted to know what happens next).
As in The Matrix (a more or less contemporaneous work), Bone is a coming-of-age story in which the protagonist's maturation coincides with increasing abilities to directly impact the "real" world.
That feat alone would seem to trivialize everything that's come before.Back to Bone, it's no spoiler to tell you that Thorn's complete mastery is revealed when she takes to the air a la Superman.
In any case, she and other kids love this book and rereading it several times to her over the last months has given me new appreciation for Smith's creation.Also, there's the whole colour thing to consider.
If we hadn't taken in the awesome danger Fone Bone is in by panel two, Smith drives it home by completely obscuring the three characters in the tumult of the falls' base.
And if you've already read Bone but it's been a couple years, you owe it to yourself.[Thorn's such a flirt.]The Colour EditionSeveral years ago, Smith worked with Scholastic to bring the book to a wider youth audience.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
I am the original author of this review, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.)It was through CCLaP critic Oriana Leckert's write-up for her Jugs & Capes essay series last year (book version finally coming next week!) that first brought Jeff Smith's epic comic Bone to my attention, plus of course the fevered recommendations I'd sometimes hear from the edges of the comics-loving crowd around me; so when the Chicago Public Library recently acquired a copy of the full 1,500-page omnibus edition, I thought it was finally time for me to sit down and check it out myself.
If somebody had come up to me with this brick and said, "Hey, you should read this! It's like Walt Kelly having a J.R.R. Tolkien-inspired fever dream! For hundreds and hundreds of pages!" I probably would have blinked a couple times and changed the subject. But this adorably geeky English teacher from one of the Carolinas presented it at a graphic novel forum at NCTE as the only thing the kids in his highly resistant 7th-grade classroom would read cover to cover. And it is oddly gripping, I must say.
That same essential cartoon atmosphere helps lull you into expectations he can break, so that one bloody sword or one swollen eye are more jarring than a field of decapitated soldiers in another comic.While not a mere comic book version of one, this is one of those “Epic” Fantasies.
In another, it’s a minor character who you never gave thought to, seeking forgiveness before he faces certain death.The most striking of the one-page moments belongs to Kingdok.
It’s merely that in his existence, Smith has given him a moment where he’s more vulnerable than any of our heroes have been.
Vēl neesmu nonācis līdz Betmeniem un citiem supervaroņiem, jo tie man tomēr šķiet nedaudz par bērnišķīgiem un nenopietniem, bet nekad nevar zināt, kur tas novedīs.
Atsākas vecās nesaskaņas, Bone brālēni uzzina, ka Ieleja ir slavena ne tikai ar savām Govju skriešanās sacīkstēm, bet arī ar seniem tempļiem, žurkradījumiem, Siseņu pavēlnieku un pūķiem.
Fone Bone – vissaprātīgākais no brālēniem, viņam rūpa arī citi, viņš nav varoņa materiāls, bet dzīve viņu par tādu padara.
Fone Bone tas viss nav vajadzīgs, viņš vienkārši gribētu notīties no šīs ielejas, taču nespēj tā vienkārši pagriezties un visus atstāt.Grāmata lasīšanai nudien nav īsti piemērota, viņa sver pāris kilogramus un ilgstoši turēt rokās ir īsts pārbaudījums.
Here is a radical statement: this cartoon comic strip is the one thing I have ever read that comes close to the epic fantasy greatness of The Lord of the Rings.
What begins as a silly, Looney Tunes-like story about a couple of "bone creatures" getting run out of "Boneville" (sounds pretty childish, huh?) quickly becomes a complex, profound, and - there's no other word for it - EPIC tale about family history, religious cults and a crazy locust monster.The way I see it, epic fantasy authors stumble in one of two ways.
Don't copy Tolkien - you come off like a hack.
A cross between the old Disney comics – think Carl Barks’ Donald & Scrooge McDuck or Floyd Gottfredson’s Mickey Mouse adventure strips - and Lord of The Rings – you wouldn’t think such a thing was possible, but it is and it works really well!
The three Bone cousins reference those old Disney comics in their design and character poses as well as their sassy forties(?) American comic book dialogue.
Phone Bone is a kind of Mickey Mouse good guy hero; Phoney is the Scrooge McDuck of the gang with his greedy money-making schemes and Smiley is more of Goofy type – but one who plays dumber than he really is.
The review is for the Bone series 1-9 plus Rose and Tall Tales. I didn't care for the first very juvenile book, though after all it IS a JF series, but glad I persevered. The more I read, the more it grew on me. The characters became more dimensional, the stores became more complex, and I enjoyed the subtle humor and the illustrations. A classic for good reason.
Ja padomā, ka gandrīz izlēmu nelasīt, jo pirmajā brīdī nepatika zīmējumi! Būtu zaudējusi vienu no brīnišķīgākajiem jebkad lasītajiem stāstiem. "Bone" ir lielisks! Visas cilvēciskās īpašības kā uz delnas šajā episkajā stāstā par kādu bijušo karaļvalsti, tās ienaidniekiem un trim nejauši ieklīdušiem Kauliem.
Who am I kidding? I haven't picked this up in three years. Entertaining and I still have it bookmarked halfway through, so may get back to it eventually.Just want to clean up my Currently Reading shelf.
I guess I've started to think about it as 'The Hobbit' of graphic novels, a long, entertaining read with some compelling characters (and more than one dragon) that is good on its own but suffers in comparision to 'The Lord of the Rings.' Some of the things I like about the book were the contrast between the way the Bones were drawn as opposed to Thorn and other 'realistic' characters, the way the narrative depended on the drawing to move between the waking and dream realities, and the sense of humor of the narrative.
When I got home and cracked the cover, I eventually made my way to their comics section and gazed upon Fone Bone for the first time.To the best of my knowledge, that was the only exposure to Jeff Smith’s Boneville I'd ever received.
Following an unplanned separation, the Bone cousins will soon embark on an epic journey involving dragons, rat creatures and a simmering conflict that is about to boil over.It took Smith ten long years to fully play out the Bone saga and while he amassed 1,300 + pages, it felt like a quick read.
Only Gran’ma Rose suspects what the arrival of the Bone cousins means for her granddaughter.
This epic fantasy, a mix of Tolkein and Looney Tunes-style characters, takes readers from the lush forests of the valley to the thrilling Great Cow Race between Gran’ma and The Mystery Cow to the echoing depths of Tanen Gard.
This edition of Bone compiles the nine books that make up the story arc.
The artwork and story blend together perfectly, despite the mix of outrageously cartoonish characters such as the Bone cousins, and the realistic, if not sometimes caricatured people of the valley.
Heerlijk! Rare mannetjes met grote neuzen, een oma die met koeien racet, Ted het insect, de stupid, stupid rat creatures, de quiche... en dat samen met een Lord of the Ringsachtig verhaal met gevechten en tovenaars en goed en kwaad. Zo, zo hard genoten!
all graphic novelists will enjoy this fast paced series
Graphic novels were the big revelation of last year for me; I unexpectedly fell in love with them and I've been itching to read more for months.
It took me over a month to read (even though I only picked it up a few times during the span of that month and it is basically an omnibus of 9 books) but I absolutely loved every single page of it and finishing it I can now see why it is considered a pioneer of the genre and one of the works that established it.
Posudili su mi izdanje uz preporuku kako je to nešto što moram pročitati.
Zato ću, prije nego što kažem bilo što drugo, kazati vam istu stvar – preporučam vam ovaj strip, bez obzira kojeg ste uzrasta.Bilo je tu svega i svačega, od epske priče, koja to postaje malo po malo, u početku nemate dojam da će takva biti.
Pa sve do sjajne plejade likova koji su veoma životopisni i puni karaktera (Crveni zmaj i Smiley su mi najbolji likovi).Pustolovina, priča, iskustvo koje je u jednom trenutku moralo doći kraju.
I baš zato mi je bilo drago kako što je ovo bilo izdanje koje sadržava svih devet poglavlja.
That isn't to say the panels aren't 'art', or that they are anything less than great; they do the job perfectly, and Smith has very clever ways of using the 2-color format.The story is also refreshing in that it is comfortable telling slapstick jokes and eye-rollers amidst the drama (which actually *does* have many adult themes, but more about duty, responsibility, greed, and so on---and they are not held up such that you cannot ignore them.
Fine things to put your characters through, to be sure, but sometimes you learn about a person by the way they relax with a book, or make breakfast, or chide a relation.
And then there are the two stupid rat creatures, one of whom always wants a quiche.Jeff Smith manages to tell a 1300-page epic fantasy while also spending dozens of pages on something called The Great Cow Race, and that right there is the magic of Bone.
But Smith uses much more humor, sometimes even the old slapstick gag of "Oh, look at you, monster, you ate our friend, can you spit him out please?" It's an impressive tonal balance, especially in the latter half of the book, where the epic fantasy elements begin to take over, with lots of magical hoo-hah and danger and death and darkness (even in darkness, there is room for a quiche joke).
