https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15451058-my-life-on-the-road
The book consists of a few chapters loosely organized around Steinem's travels -- mostly in the US -- and the many, many people she has met and spoken to, and their stories.
And mostly there are many really good stories about the people she has met in her travels -- how they have touched and inspired her.
In a way, this book is the opposite of what one might expect from an icon -- it's not about Steinem and her achievements, but rather about other people and how they have inspired her.
Steinem starts by talking about her early upbringing, which I found not only surprising, but fascinating.
It's like sitting down with an old friend as she recounts important life events.
Steinem included so much in this book, it's hard to review without giving anything away.
While she talks of feminism, it is current, and seen through a new lens.
It normalizes all other violence."Steinem speaks of everyone from JFK to Martin Luther King to several important figures I had never heard of.
Steinem has definitely lifted a big life, one I thoroughly enjoyed reading about!
This memoir focuses on Steinem's travels around the world, and her political and activist experiences in the United States.
It's almost as if Steinem didn't want her book lumped into a category in the same way she doesn't want women stereotyped and held back because of gender.I listened to this on audio, read by Debra Winger, which was a delight.
I didn't even know, as we sat in Ramnad, that a wave of talking circles and "testifying" was going on in black churches of my own country and igniting the civil rights movement.
I certainly didn't guess that, a decade later, I would see consciousness-raising groups, women's talking circles, giving birth to the feminist movement.
3.5 Grew up hearing about this amazing woman, reading MS magazine and cheering her on from afar.
This book filled that in for me and I loved reading about her early life, somewhat surprising and how she started in her career.
What she has done and what she has accomplished is truly amazing.Loved the candidness of her writing, the good and the bad but there was a serious lack of organization in this book and some repetitiveness.
Still this book is very much worth reading and what bugged me may not phase you at all.
Her latest book is a compilation of memories and reflection of a life lived on the road and what it means to be an "organizer" -- of social justice movements, of rallies, of connecting others.
When most people think of Steinem they think "feminist" and "speaker" and "leader" but what she's spent most of her life doing is listening and that is what has made her so good at being all of those other things.
I was surprised to learn that Steinem is a nervous public speaker, and though she has spent a life doing it, still gets butterflies before getting up in front of a group of people.
~Gloria Steinem, My Life on the Road
Oh, but I do have a couple of good stories about taxi rides.Editor: That sounds good.
Maybe we could devote a chapter to taxi stories.Gloria Steinem: And I met an interesting woman on a plane once.Editor: Ok, it sounds like grouping it around a travelling theme might pull it all together nicely.Gloria Steinem: Can I write about my Dad too?
Hillary Clinton is very topical.Gloria Steinem: I'd like to talk about all the campaigning I've ever done and I can write about Hillary as part of that.
I want to be Gloria Steinem when I grow up.I went to a women's college for my undergraduate degree, and while I have a lot of complaints about the particular experience I had, one thing I appreciated was the communal existence.
We've all had very different experiences in life, and yet no one really talks about it, about the one thing that we all have in common in spite of our differences: the fact that we are women.Reading Gloria Steinem's book made me miss that sense of community.
It makes the book a fascinating, even inspiring combination of personal story and history that’s a lot of fun to read--and because this is Gloria Steinem, readers also get an enlightening front row seat for the burgeoning women’s movement of the 1960’s-70’s and its continuing development.When she was a young child Steinem’s father ran a lakeside music venue in the summer, but once fall came he’d pack everyone in the car to spend the rest of the year driving around the country buying and then selling junk or antiques or whatever, earning enough of a profit to make it to the next town--an enterprise in which the whole family participated.
I had never read a book by Steinem before, and was really surprised by how much I enjoyed this wonderful memoir. She recounts how a significant part of her life has been lived on the road, starting with her early years spent wandering the country with her traveling salesman father and deeply unhappy mother, to her travels around the world related to her work. This is an amazing look into the mind of one of America's most famous feminist icons. Tune in to our weekly podcast dedicated to all things new books, All The Books: http://bookriot.com/category/all-the-...
I finished this book on a break between meetings at an office in San José, Costa Rica, and spent some time afterward listening to the women (and man) who work on the team here exchanging tips about how to handle various work tasks, borrowing chapstick, planning a First Aid kit they can all access, discussing sexual harassment in the workplace and how best to respond to it, and just kind of exemplifying the kind of communal circle Steinem talks about in this book on a micro-level.
"On a micro-level" is really where most of us live day to day, I think, and so we can fool ourselves into believing that our participation in these circles of communal problem-solving don't make much difference.
I'm glad that with that wonderful gift of freedom from my mother-in-law, it won't be too long before the next journey.
There are great anecdotes, for instance speaking at Harvard Law School where one of the faculty rises to tell her she doesn’t understand the traditions of HLS in a manner so out of control that he proved her point; another a former truck driver who showed her the truck driving world; another a young boy, who as a child was used as a girl.Her observations are food for thought, for instance the animosity achieving women have for Hillary Clinton may be based on their sense of an inequality in their own marriages; Some who condemn her for “not throwing the bum out” have accepted infidelity in their own marriage and want her to “punish” their husband through her punishing Bill.
Took me a while, but loved the little anecdotes, there were tears, laughter, and truly touching moments. I shan't review properly because of spoilers ;)Although what I will say is that it is a good educational tool, especially talking about feminism in the 70's, to how it's evolved since.
Despite it being titled "My Life on the Road," it's really more a book about the modern feminist movement than about Steinem alone (although, can you discuss one without discussing the other?).
I'm leaving it knowing more about the growth of feminism and the often hidden impact of women in history.
However, I have to also acknowledge that this book is not without its faults - the biggest one being the exclusion of trans women.
Especially, considering Steinmen's (and the feminist movement in general) problematic history with the trans community.
In this well written memoir we learn both how far we've come yet how far we have to go. The many stories had me laughing and crying! She has a strong sense of right and wrong and the wherewithal to make good use of her intuition. It was an honor and a priveledge to read this book. Thank you NetGalley for the ARC and thank you Gloria for all your efforts to advance gender equality.
3.5 out of 5 stars (I feel like I give half star ratings way too frequently but whatever.)THIS book was really interesting and I was surprised by how much I enjoyed it. Not that I expected not to enjoy it, just that I liked it more than I thought I would. . Going into it, I didn't know that much about Gloria Steinem so it was great to learn more. I uploaded my review of this book on my YouTube channel so if you are interested then you should definitely check it out- https://youtu.be/Cv0F7O8SNGk :)
If you want people to see you, you have sit down with them eye-to-eye.” Why have I never read any of Ms Steinem’s books before?While being aware of her background and involvement with the women’s movement, workplace equality, and co-founding ”Ms."magazine, I’d simply not read any of her writing from “cover to cover”.
Not just for feminist issues, but also to end racial and sexual discrimination.The constant work, the constant travel, the constant hustle.I can’t count the number of times that I started to tear up reading this, as there were just so many poignant moments.Gloria Steinem’s warmth, wit, intelligence and compassion shine through on these pages.A must read for anyone with a heart who is interested in learning about their fellow human beings.
I knew so little about the author herself, let alone about the various people, places, and topics she discussed.
From there, her story meanders back and forth in time covering various hot spots in history, as well as touching on turning points in Gloria Steinem's life.
Sometimes the two intersected and often provided teachable moments, both for the author and the reader.I quite enjoyed this book.
I found myself Googling various events that Gloria discussed as I sometimes had little, if any, knowledge about them and I wanted to learn more.
Steinem quotes a young taxi driver she meets who was embargoing all reading (against the Goodreads code I know!), all media, and so on after his partner had challenged him to think about ideas in a way that was unfiltered by his world view.
Steinem quotes him as saying  “Filters let in a cup of water, but keep out the ocean."  a fascinating idea; not something I could do, but it does make me wonder how can I be more critical in my thinking?
So yeah, I'm going to be a dissenter, that's fine.
I was struggling to get through this book before some current statements were made.
I am highly disappointed in someone that is so pivotal in feminism.
Calling women that are supporting Bernie Sanders "attention seekers", regardless of your political views, totally goes against what you're teaching.
This is a step back from what you're trying to do.
Aren't we trying to build women up, and not only want men and women to be treated equally, but for WOMEN to treat each other equally?
I will not be finishing your book.
hasta que nos desborda»🛣🛣🛣Leer a Gloria Steinem es prepararse para un largo y maravilloso viaje, no solo por su vida, sino por el movimiento feminista de EEUU del que ella ha sido (y es) una parte destacada.
Nos convence de que el activismo debe hacerse en el día a día, sin descanso, ni siquiera en esas horas interminables de espera en los aeropuertos.
A cada esquina siempre existe una historia agazapada para ser escuchada, una causa que debe ser defendida, una oposición que hay que derribar.
The one thing I know to expect, when someone really famous sits down to tell us about her life, is that the ego will be there.
Once in awhile it’s been so bald-faced that I came away wishing I hadn’t read the book so I could go on liking the author.
Now I want to read everything she ever wrote.Travel is a great metaphor, but it’s also a material fact for Steinem.
A circular table.You have to read this book.
It's something we should celebrate."If you want people to listen to you, you have to listen to them.If you hope people will change how they live, you have to know how they live.If you want people to see you, you have to sit down with them eye-to-eye."I had never heard of Gloria Steinem before.
Sometimes I think the only real division into two is between people who divide everything into two, and those who don't."This book is a lesson.
A lesson on history, on humanity, on hope and possibilities.
Then raise your hand and speak."I could leave – because I could return.
Instead of either/or, I discovered a whole world of and."Gloria Steinem's memories are so alive.
"[...] yet I was traveling and making the discovery that ordinary people are smart, smart people are ordinary, decisions are best made by the people affected by them, and human beings have an almost infinite capacity for adapting to the expectations around us- which is both the good and the bad news."  Τελειώνοντας αυτό το βιβλίο έμεινα με ένα πολύ όμορφο συναίσθημα: έμαθα πολλά πράγματα και μου άνοιξε την όρεξη για να μάθω ακόμη περισσότερα!
"In making my list about the pluses and minuses of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, I discovered I was angry.
I was angry because young men in politics were treated like rising stars, but young women were treated like - well, young women.
I was angry about all the women candidates who put their political skills on hold to raise children - and all the men male candidates who didn't.
I was angry about human talent that was lost just because it was born into a female body, and the mediocrity that was rewarded because it was born into a male one." (p.166-167)
I actually listened to this from audible when walking to and from work. Not sure how it would read, but I found it really inspiring as an audiobook. Gloria Steinem wrote beautifully on travel, feminism, organizing, race, and friendship. Some of my favorite moments were small descriptions of chance encounters with cab drivers or attendees of an event. Personal and moving, you can tell she can connect deeply with people. Don't know how it reads as a book, but I'm glad I "read" it.
This is such a wonderful record by a public figure I treasure; however, the writing is repetitive and the organization is chaotic. It's still highly readable and quite moving, but I wish time had been taken for better editing of this important memoir.
This book is the result of all those years of listening and learning.Steinem organizes her chapters by theme and discusses events with only a loose chronology.
These events are constructed anew from the point of view of a woman, feminist, writer, and organizer.
Despite how she essentializes travel, the road, etc., at the front end of the book, she remedies this with greater specificity later on—many of these lessons are hard won, and many of them are not realized until years after the fact.The book begins with reminiscences of childhood adventure and ends with the loss of a beautiful life.
(Of course I am totally that person as well: just another patchily-informed secondary source.)Another fascination was with the the potential carcrash aspects of the group, wondering which way it would go: Its initial chaos and lack of monitoring, followed by the appointment of a couple of mods, brand new to Goodreads, and without the detailed knowledge of different forms of feminism that large numbers of long-term site members have, those people who regularly write detailed responses to feminist books.
I knew her as a Ms. founder/editor, the "pretty feminist" attractive enough to become, and write about the plight of, a Playboy Bunny, and remembered some comments of "seasoned" feminists I encountered stating that Steinem was "privileged".
The book does not even mention the Bunny episode, and effectively dispels any myth of financial privilege; Steinem's childhood was full of adventures caused by her parents' maladjustments and their attempts to survive when money was scant.
I was hesitant to read/listen to this book after Gloria Steinem's offensive remarks aimed at women who are supporting Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton but I figured everyone says stupid stuff sometimes.
Absolutely Disgusting!!!!Feminism means equality for all & rewarding on merit not sex...not...you have to vote for this candidate no matter what because she doesn't have a penis & if you don't then you're a Hillary Hater who is jealous.I have little patience & tolerance for people who attempt to shame women into behaving a certain way because they're women.
