https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38530939-the-clockmaker-s-daughter
You know you’re a baller when your name is bigger than the title🙌🤗- - - - - - - - -When the queen writes it, you read it.Kate Morton is my number one favorite author - I have read every one of her books and will read her grocery list if I had the option.
Admittedly, this is not my favorite of Ms. Morton’s (may I recommend The Secret Keeper and The Lake House), but is still a beautiful masterpiece.
I admire not only the exquisite writing but also the attention to detail and great amount of historical research, oftentimes seeped in tragedy, that clearly goes into her books.
Yes, she has written about another house, a house that has witnessed great love and unbearable loss, a house that is the repository of many a secret.
A Gothic tale, where past and present meet, where there is someone who has witnessed it all, unable to leave.Lush settings, and fantastic period detail.
Many characters who tell their stories, not in alternate chapters as is usual in these type of dual timeline stories, but in a brilliant rendering of the blending of time on this house that has witnessed so much.
I loved it, I think Morton has outdone herself here.
Well, I guess you can tell from my rating that this wasn’t my favorite book by Morton, but it wasn’t bad. Maybe my expectations were simply not in the right place, but I had a difficult time following the jumping timelines and in turn, connecting with the characters. I’ll think on this one a bit more before writing a full review, but fans of her previous work might be appreciative to know going into this that it’s a bit different than her other novels. Full review to come. *I received a review copy from the publisher.
The Clockmaker’s Daughter by Kate Morton is a 2018 Atria Books publication.As the early reviews for this book started to trickle in, I was concerned by too many opening lines that began with: ‘I love Kate Morton’s books, she is one of my favorite authors, but…’In a year where I’ve been very disappointed in some of my favorite authors, I was terrified it was about to happen again.
I’ve put off writing this review because I just didn’t feel up to the grueling exercise of trying to articulate my thoughts, especially since, like so many others, Morton is one my all -time favorite writers.
Somehow Elodie feels connected to these objects.
Her books are long, they are in rich in details, and it takes some time to wade through; but the experience is like wading through the most pristine, sheer tropical blue waters, enveloped in glorious details that enrich the story and do not detract or weigh down (or push back) the delight.
Someone special, alluded to in the synopsis, witnessed all that has happened at Birchwood Manor over the years.
Will Birchwood Manor ever shed its shroud of secrets?Thank you to Atria Books for the physical copy.
I absolutely loved the fantastical elements of this story, learning all the secrets hidden in Birchwood Manor and the character connections to the ghostly presence of Birdie Bell, the clockmaker’s daughter which was so pivotal to the story for me.
THE CLOCKMAKER’S DAUGHTER by KATE MORTON is an engrossing, wonderful, and breathtaking read here that offers many and such distinctive storylines that I found rather alluring and definitely appealed to me as a reader.
KATE MORTON skillfully delivers an absolutely beautiful, richly detailed, complex and atmospheric read here that vastly intertwines different time periods and multiple characters together into one astounding and powerful story.
Kate Morton writes a beautiful piece of epic interconnected historical fiction, with a strong fantastical element, through the ages, with the focus on the rambling Birchwood Manor by the Thames.
However, it all ends in catastrophe as a woman is murdered, plus the orphaned artistic muse, Birdie Bell, the clockmaker's daughter, disappears suspected of the theft and Edward's life is shattered into pieces.
Elodie delves into the mystery of the items in the satchel, unaware of her personal family connection and how her investigations will impact on her future and personal life.
This is a story of Birchwood Manor, murder, mystery, theft, secrets, lies, art, love, loss and both world wars.
A romantic love story, a mystery and a murder Birchwood Manor is located near the Thames and it is at the center of this story and it also holds the truth about what happened one summer in 1862. The house is like a character and has "a voice" that whispers to the reader and makes connections that won't be revealed until later. I kept asking myself, "who is speaking"? That will be revealed later.The story spans from the 1860's to present day and artist, Edward Radcliffe is at the heart of the my
A romantic love story, a mystery and a murder
The house is like a character and has "a voice" that whispers to the reader and makes connections that won't be revealed until later.
That will be revealed later.The story spans from the 1860's to present day and artist, Edward Radcliffe is at the heart of the mystery.
The characters in the present day story felt very modern and I was intrigued to find out what the connections between past and present were.This is my first Kate Morton book and it was such an atmospheric, detailed and absorbing tale.
The discovery of an old photograph kicks off this account about the inhabitants of a manor house which eventually contains a mannerly prescence.
An archivist, archeologist, painter and pick pocket are among the people that pepper this tale.
Moving between the late 1850’s, early 1860’s, post WWI, WWII and the summer of 2017, Morton’s plot is typically dense and contains a wide variety of characters with fuzzy familial and tangential relationships.
Some characters are introduced only to have their storylines dropped or underdeveloped.
This highly anticipated novel will, no doubt, thrill Morton’s fans.
Initially I was engaged but ultimately I was not overly enthused.
When it comes to an author like Kate Morton readers should be well aware that they will find great writing when picking up a new book and that was still the case with The Clockmaker’s Daughter.
However, even with lovely writing sometimes things just don’t work for some readers and that would be my dilemma with this one.The Clockmaker’s Daughter is a historical fiction read told from multiple points of view over the course of decades.
With this story the author has taken multiple to a whole new level in the fact I found it hard to keep track of so many characters coming into the story.
A disappointing read with way too many characters and time frames to keep track of and at 582 pages I just found this was a very time consuming read with a story that just plodded along and lacked any real suspense or tension and ended up being an uneventful and tedious read.Having loved Kate Morton's first two novel's I am always hoping for something as suspensful or entertaining but this one just didn't cut the mustard for me.
Her prose if vivid and descriptive but the plot and characters was just lacking on this one.
A beautifully told story about a house, a love, and a ghost.... This is my third Kate Morton book and just as her previous books were this book was a slow burn... some books are a quick little getaway this book was a journey... The journey of a house and it’s ghost, through many decades and many eyes.... an old-fashioned love story, a contemporary mystery, and so much inbetween... This story really is like a complicated and beautiful weaving... at the beginning there are so many threads none of
A beautifully told story about a house, a love, and a ghost....
but as Kate Morton begins to work the loom and weave the story together, a beautiful picture is formed...
just remember when you pick this book up sometimes weaving takes some patients and effort, but the end result is so worth it!A love story, a ghost story, a murder, a theft, a complex plot....
The two constant characters in this book were unlikely, the house and the ghost...
trust that Kate Morton would bring this all together and at about 30% she really did, The picture began to come together....
3.7 Stars* (rounded up)My First Kate Morton: Lyrical, Magical and Mysterious.
While conducting her work in London, Elodie, an Archivist, discovers a painting of a woman, along with a drawing of a house, set alongside a river.
Elodie is swept away by her research, by the mystery and by another life which seems much more exciting than her own.
The setting is breathtaking and lush: Birchwood Manor, London and The Thames River!
“The Clockmaker’s Daughter” is a complex tale that was a bit slow moving for me, however the prose was quite lovely and the writing was unforgettable.
Brilliantly narrated.Let me start by stating, I love Kate Morton!
I have read and loved all of her books.
I devoured this lengthy novel in days, putting aside all other reading to truly focus on her luscious and delectable writing.
Birchwood Manor, the main setting throughout this novel, is a character of its own and I fell in love with this old mansion that held many secrets.I was engrossed within this mysterious tale from start to finish.
It was a fully satisfying and memorable read that I would highly recommend.
This was a Traveling Sister read.
Traveling Sisters Group ReadThis was my first book by Kate Morton and I really didn’t know what to expect from one of her books.
I went into this one with a few other books on the go and I found out there are a few things you might need to know when you read The Clockmaker’s Daughter.This is a story to savor every beautifully written detail and the story and characters need focus and attention.
The characters are interesting and engaging and ones you really want to take the time to get to know.This one makes for a perfect buddy read or group read.
It was an absolute pleasure reading this fantastic novel!For more reviews from the Traveling Sister, please check out our bloghttps://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/2...
First of all, I want to say that I am a HUGE Kate Morton fan.
I could barely finish it and only kept going because it was Kate Morton, and I was sure it would get better.
There were so many times reading this book where I had to stop and think "Wait...who is this person again?" or "Where are we now?"The bigger problem is that, unlike Morton's previous books, I didn't really care about the mystery at the center of the story all that much.
I guess Morton has become so successful that her publisher thinks she doesn't need editing.
But a firm editor is exactly what this book needed.
I was so excited to be awarded the book and added it to my August reading queue.
Although not my favorite of all her novels, it's an enchanting story and covers a lot of beautiful generations within a couple of families...What I loved the most about this book was how you never quite knew who was speaking in the beginning of a chapter.
There are memorable characters in this book and I recommend it for that reason alone.
On the flip side, there are over 30 main characters, so it gets a tad difficult to keep focused if you have to put the book down for more than a day at a time.
4★“Kitty wore her cynicism well, but Leonard had known her before the war and he could see all the stitches that were holding the costume together.”Kitty and Leonard are just one of several generations of characters Morton introduces us to, all connected to Birchwood Manor at one time or other in their lives.
Thank God, they cannot glimpse how much bigger it is than they think.”The book itself is bigger than I thought, not just in size, but in the number of stories it encompasses.
: )I think Morton fans will enjoy this one, index or not!
Then I am forced to tackle the morning routine of getting ready for work as the clock seems to tick a little faster before I find myself rushing out the door to get to work and begin hours of nonstop activity.
When I thought about Kate Morton’s newest novel, The Clockmaker’s Daughter, I couldn’t help but think that her book had that same ebb and flow of a day for me.
Read it now and absorb as much as you can, then put it on your shelf and in a few years on a rainy Saturday afternoon, pick it up and get lost in it again in Morton’s beautiful tale.I received an advance copy of this book from NetGalley.
How to describe a book like The Clockmaker’s Daughter by Kate Morton?
The story itself is delicate, like spun sugar.
It is timeless, not bound by a single story thread, but comprised of a tangle of threads that weave backwards and forwards like the winding of a clock.
In that way, The Clockmaker’s Daughter couldn’t have a more perfect titular figure and motif.
I found this book to be thought-provoking and haunting, but not in the way you’d expect.
But this book is haunting in the way a beloved place can be haunting.
At its core, that is what I’d say The Clockmaker’s Daughter is about.Full review to follow :)
Some Kate Morton books work for me and some do not.
I enjoyed it despite the length which was a tad excessive!As usual there is more than one time period and lots of flipping back and forth, which means the reader has to pay attention at all times!
There are many very likable characters who are all linked together in various ways which also requires concentration.
I weakened before the end and thus missed a couple of connections but it did not spoil the book one bit.The story was excellent and the final denouement regarding the missing Lily was a stunner!
and am so glad I did because I truly learned what defines me as a reader.To say that Kate Morton had me with her words...
In all honestly, I was frustrated and felt that my reading experience was blurred due to putting in work trying to follow each and every time zone and character.
Kate's talent began to poor off the pages with the journey behind each character that aligned nicely at the end.
I think what I learned through my reading experience with The Clockmaker's Daughter is that sometimes a book isn't about the "hype" or getting to that final twist....
Elodie's best friend since school Pippa helps her find out the truth about the satchel & the lady in the photo, what they discover is a heartbreaking look into the background of Edward Radcliffe life & it was such a harrowing read that drew every emotion out of me I felt sorrow for Birdie her life was so hard losing her father & mother, being brought up in a girls home where horrendous things occurred.All I can say is WOW!!
this book is well worth reading if you have not discovered Kate Morton well here is your chance.
Edward was an artist just beginning to make his name – his muse a beautiful young woman who he declared he couldn’t paint without.
But two weeks into their stay, disaster struck, and lives would be forever changed.The Clockmaker’s Daughter is a novel stretched over time; told in many voices at varying times during the 150-year timeslot, there are many stories within the story and the link is always there.
I feel Aussie author Kate Morton has a winner in The Clockmaker’s Daughter, and although I feel it was a little long, it's an exceptional read.
The Clockmaker’s Daughter is truly a masterpiece.Before I started The Clockmaker’s Daughter, a colleague told me to read slowly and pay close attention because the book jumps around in time a fair amount and without much warning and there are a lot of characters.
This was very useful advice; as a result, I enjoyed savoring the setting, the characters, and the story itself while also making sure I kept up with the numerous characters and time periods.
Every time I recommend this book to someone, I give them the same advice – slow down your reading, savor the story, and keep up with the various characters.I absolutely loved this book.
Elodie is driven to explore, find, and discover what it is that makes this house, this drawing, become a part of her own personal story.Told through many different narratives, Kate Morton is able to weave a story of love, of murder, and the fates that awaited both Edward and Birdie in a house that seemed to hold mystery and haunting.
Making the house and what it knows and holds within its walls a central focus of this story gives the book an enigmatic, mystical feel bringing together the lives of the people who once lived there and those people who presently come to know this home.
4 and a half starsThis story of Birchwood Manor and events that happen there is told by several narrators.
And the reader gets to hear the voice of Birdie Bell who saw the dramatic events unfold.I was so looking forward to reading this book as I have enjoyed other Kate Morton books.
I started in without reading the blurb or the author’s note at the front, as I wanted to go into it without knowing too much of the story beforehand.
At over 600 pages it is quite a long read, but it didn’t bother me as there was enough happening to keep my interest.
I received a free copy of The Clockmaker's Daughter by Kate Morton from Goodreads for my honest review.I was so excited to win this book as I love Kate Morton.
The Lake House is exquisite.
With The Clockmaker's Daughter is a beautifully written ghost story that intertwines different time periods and a lot of different characters.
The main character being, the clockmaker's daughter.
The house, Birchwood Manor, which is located on the bank of the Thames, becomes a central character as well.
You will fall in love with the characters in this book and the wonderful story line which will bring you tons of surprises.
The Clockmaker’s Daughter by Kate Morton is about a murder in the summer of 1862 and in present day a young lady trying to make sense of of the mystery. I enjoy reading this author's books but this story was a little slow for me and didn't have the charm of her previous books. I would like to thank NetGalley and Pan McMillan for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for a free, electronic ARC of this novel received in exchange for an honest review.  Kate Morton returns with her new novel, “The Clockmaker’s Daughter”. Of course, being Kate Morton, she delights a reader with powerful, descriptive imagery and settings, a creative plot and beautiful language, as she spins a delightful historical tale. In 1862, a group of young people take up residence in “Birchwood Manor”, in hopes of spending the summer creating art and e
Kate Morton returns with her new novel, “The Clockmaker’s Daughter”.
Of course, being Kate Morton, she delights a reader with powerful, descriptive imagery and settings, a creative plot and beautiful language, as she spins a delightful historical tale.
Although indeed, the Clockmaker’s Daughter is one of the characters in this novel, it seems to be more a tale about the house itself than an individual person.
“The Clockmaker’s Daughter” had so many plots, it could have been many stories instead of just one, however this also made the novel easy to read.
Fans of Morton will enjoy “The Clockmaker’s Daughter”, for its traditional Morton style and beauty.
