https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45839.Principles_of_Anatomy_and_Physiology
I would not normally add a textbook to my booklist, but this one is a little different. I spent two years with this book. I lugged it around everywhere in my backpack to the point where this book actually had a physical impact on my body. I spent so many hours reading, making notes and translating the information in the book into my mind and because of this I feel such an intimate connection to this book it wouldn't be right to leave it off my list. It taught me a lot.
(Not so coincidentally, both Grant's and Moore's share authors.) For what it's worth, if anything, if I had to recommend a single atlas, I'd probably recommend Grant's.But to be honest, I think lecture notes + anatomy labs + either an anatomy textbook or atlas of your choice (not necessarily both unless you have extra money to splurge) are more than sufficient for learning the basic gross anatomy required in most med schools and for the USMLE Step 1.
I would not ordinarily review a school textbook but I have to review this.
This book has dominated my life for multiple months.
The tragedy of the semester aside, it was a great book.
I have an old edition of the book and I still managed to get through the class fine.
Even if this is not your assigned textbook (which it probably is) I would grab it.
You can't get through the class without good graphics.
This book has amazing pictures and graphs illustrating the topics.
I got a high A in the class.
Phenomenal. Well written. Excellent graphics. So tastefully done that it has about the only photographs of dissected bodies that I can view and feel fascinated rather than nauseated. The only thing they need to work on is getting the graphics on the same page as the text they expand upon. Once this is done this book will be on par with the fifth reference edition of the _Molecular Biology of the Cell_ by Alberts in terms of greatness.
This is one of my all-time favorite texts, and I refer to it often. As a matter of fact, I keep it under my desk since it's just the right height for my raised chair, and I imagine all that material is seeping through the soles of my feet while I'm studying other things.
I love this text. Have the 8th edition. Probably my most referred to book.
Best. Anatomy book. EVER!It needs no other words to tell you how good this is is. If you’re doing anatomy or physiology or both. GET THIS!!!
This is a book I would give more than five stars if I could.
Not only is it extremly well written but the authors have taken a topic that can be complex and explained it so well and effectively that students are left wishing all their university books were written like this.
The authors seem to anticipate questions that might arise and answer them directly and in doing this they sometimes repeat themselves which instead of being repetitive creates a full picture and ties different areas to each other.
It's genuinely one of the best books I have ever read in this category and it deserves that acknowledgment!
This is one of the best textbooks I have ever come across.
The integration of forms and functions of the human body is mesmerizing.
Vivid description and very well planned arrangement of topics made the book a self sufficient one.
It is handy , it is rich yet phenomenally concise.
The illustrations are effective to such an extent that one doesn’t need to browse tons of reference materials in order to grasp the concepts.
The concepts can be assimilated easily as if it is a package of monosaccharides.
I grew a fervent feeling with this book.
NYC
Great resource
I can't say I read every page cover to cover, but I finished the course I had purchased the book for. Overall I really liked it and felt it enhanced my understanding of the material.
i want to read this book
I really enjoyed the Anatomy and Physiology class this spring (2013), and imagined that I would read the other half of the book.
In real life I’ve only read a couple of additional chapters.
So, it’s time to mark it as read.
It was fascinating to get into the details, so even though my company provided a textbook for the semester, I bought a copy to mark it up and continue to study.
I especially like the part at the end of each chapter, which describes the effects of aging.
Good fucking God almighty up on the mountain, it's over. I can't really say how this book compares to other A & P books - but I must say it is rather inconsistent about how clearly it explains certain processes. The way it describes mitosis & meiosis was VERY insufficient - thank God I could find a video on youtube that explained it more clearly. The animations on the CD-ROM that accompany the book were very helpful, as well as the lab manual, but if I had been left with just this book - yikes.
I'm using this book for my Anatomy and Physiology class and as far as text books go this one is pretty good. I find it informative, easy to use and interesting. Also I appreciate all the anecdotes that relate it to real life and current clinical practices. The only down side is that holy crow this book is heavy. Lugging it around is akin to a work out. Which now that I think of it, might not be a bad thing ;)
I'm fond of this, for a textbook. Anatomy and physiology is often fascinating, and this book is well illustrated and clear. Not too technical, but instructive. Figures are in depth and tell a big story oftentimes. I like the yoga edition's cover better though.
This was the most expensive book for College I ever bought, so I knew from that day I would keep this book forever. Little did I know how handy this book would continue to be after my class! I still use it all the time.
Nous avons passé à travers ce livre la 1ere année en cours de massothérapie. Intéressant et surprenant de voir comment le corps humain fonctionne. C'est sure j'en ai oublié des tits boutte après 4ans mais je m'y réfère en cas de besoin.
yah, dibandingkan buku fisiologi lain, tampilan tortora lebih menarik. Isinya juga bagus, ditambah ilustrasi yang membantu manusia DDR seperti saya (DDR-Daya Dong Rendah. Dong=understanding something).
Well, I guess I read the majority of this book. We didn't have to read every single chapter, but pretty close.I am sure I will also be referring to this text during my Advanced Physiology course this summer, so it is not really finished yet either.
Some days I would rather poke my eyes out than read this book. But alas, I have no choice. It is a pretty good book. A decent amount of information but for the love of GOD it weighs like 10lbs easy! This book needs a diet.
I love the binder format of this text considering I'll be using it for two terms of A&P. I have removed next term's chapters and stuck them in a different binder and then I put my notes into this term's binder with the chapter they belong to. It's nice to have text and notes all in one place.
Recommended by Prof. Goodman in his lectures
Me gusta que tiene muchas imágenes, muy completo, pero así mismo, tiene tanta información que tiene uno que otro error, hablo de la traducción del español, obvio.
This is an amazing reference actually, the illustrations speak for themselves, they reveal a pig picture.The text is concise and clear.I really like it.
Great textbook for Advanced A&P.
to get a good book and i got it
great book
current textbook and future reference book
