https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/630591.The_Strangest_Secret
It not only will, there's no way that it cannot.""Far too many of us worry ourselves into an early grave trying to cope with things in our own little personal ways, without learning a few great laws that will take care of everything for us.""He is where he is because that is exactly where he really wants to be, whether he'll admit that or not.""Just suppose you're sitting at the controls of such a vast source of energy.
Do this knowing that your returns in life must be in direct proportion to what you give." "Don't concern yourself with how you're going to achieve your goal.
Concentrate on your goal every day> Save 10% of everything you earn> Action.
Ideas are worthless unless you act on them.> 6 Steps to Realize Success 1.
Set yourself a definite goal 2.
Stop thinking about all the reasons why you can't be successful and instead think about all the reasons why you can 4.
Trace your attitudes back through your childhood and try to discover where you first got the idea that you couldn't be successful 5.
Change the image you have of yourself by writing out a description of the person you would like to be 6.
Act the part of the successful person you have decided to become
People with goals succeed because they know where,they're going.We become what we think about.Human beings can alter their lives by altering their attitudes of mind.Believe and succeed.We must control our thinking.Life should be an exciting adventure. Act as though it were impossible to fail.Remember to keep calm and cheerful.

It's very motivational. I love it. It's very helpful to people who solely think negatively.
1. Set yourself a definite goal2. Quit putting yourself down3. Stop thinking about all the reasons why you can't be successful and instead think about all the reasons why you can4. Trace your attitudes back through your childhood and try to discover where you first got the idea that you couldn't be successful5. Change the image you have of yourself by writing out a description of the person you would like to be6. Act the part of the successful person you have decided to becomehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GakfE...
Do not keep this to yourselfA quick read to motivate you to get back on track towards your goals. Get your second wind on the path to the life you were meant to live.
The ONLY way to earn money is by providing people with services or products which are needed and useful.
We exchange our product or service for the other man's money therefore the law is that our financial return will be in direct proportion to our service.
Making money is the result of success and our success is in direct proportion to our service." Earl Nightingale The Strangest Secret "The human mind is the last great unexplored continent on the earth.
It will return anything we want to plant.""Why don't people use their minds more?
A mind opening book with a common sense approach and included a bonus book about writers habits. Now reading Instant Analysis to change these habits.
Still, I have to say that The Strangest Secret itself, that is:You become what you think aboutis instrumental advice in turning a mediocre life into one of true fulfillment, and discovering what your goals are, if any -- and if you don't have any, why not.
I shouldn't say you, 'cause going into this book I was in the process of realising that I don't have any real goals.
So The Strangest Secret helped me put this fact in perspective and motivated me to change it by detecting what exactly it is I want to live and strive for.
This book began it all.
The opposite of courage is not cowardice but conformity.
People with GOALS succeed because they know where they're going, it's that simple.
All you have to know is where you're going.
Always do your very best - you don't need to be perfect.
The only way to make money and earn it is from providing services and products that are useful.
Be at service before thinking about the money.
All you need to do your very best and faith.
For the first 30 days work your hardest.
Do it like you have never done before in the first thirty days and you will see a huge diff.
moment each and every time.I can't imagine life without having been exposed to "The Strangest Secret"..You should not confuse this book with "The Secret"..Although sleightly similar in nature, "The Secret" can easily convince the reader that no responsibility or work are required to enjoy a life of success and reward."The Strangest Secret" explains the ENERGY and EFFORT that must be put into your endeavers in order to enjoy the benefits that come from the law of attraction.If you do not want to get clear on what you want and why, set worht while meaningful goals, make hard fast decisions, work hard, and then hold yourself accountable, this book is not for you.Although "The Secret" has a lot of good information when coupled with other correct principles.
It was a very easy read... I felt like he could have made it into just a little bit more... but the message behind it only took a minute to understand... and apply to your life. So if you are looking for a quick message then this is a definite must.
Such a powerful message for anyone! Regardless of profession or stage of life. I would highly recommend. Such a quick and easy read.
Most people believe that their life is shaped by circumstances and not by what one makes of his/her life.In order to be successful you have to have goals.
"We become what we think about"If you think in positive terms, you will achieve positive results and vice versa.You get out of something how much you put into it.Nightingale lays out a 30 day action ideas to put the strangest secret to work for you:1.
5. Action - Ideas are worthless unless we act on them.Write your goals down and look at them as often as you can.Do not just do the work that is required always do a little more."We become what we think about"
First of all, this book was easy to read - which I appreciate.
There weren't any new information or things that were important for me as a growing person.
The worst thing was that most of information was repetitive.
But in the end, when I think of the book in general, I think it was quite okay.
For someone, who for some reason, doesn't know or understand these things, it would be a nice read.
Since I know them, and I don't read/enjoy a lot of this genre of books, it was just okay.
Amazing book.
The only reason I rated it 4/5 versus 5/5 is because I felt like the book should elaborate more on goals, how to set them in detail (as it states you should), and what that looks like in written form.
I read elsewhere, that our goals should be be contingent upon another person to complete them (i.e. getting engaged, having a baby), but I’m sure these are someone’s goals.
Would this be appropriate for the 30 day test?I appreciated the written audio and video test.
The universal principals is that those things have to align.I also appreciate the emphasis on “earn” money and “reaping what you sow”.
Now, I have always been an ardent lover of self-help books, but then they always require a lot of effort: they are huge, and it becomes cumbersome to keep up with them, and simultaneously harness the energy they emit.
This one is the perfect mind nutrition given its brief size yet powerful adages that if masticated, are going to bring effective results.
I am definite I am going to use it every once in a while, to sort of recreate the ‘positive vibe’ and embody it.
I would say 5 on 5 for this little book for it manages to evoke the motivation in just 36 pages.
It was written during an era where where workers held traditional jobs and is mostly geared towards manual labor and sales.
While the principles are timeless and can be applied towards various industries and population, it's as if the author tried too hard to reach such a wide audience that he lost specifics in the process.
There are some nuggets to find in this book and I like that there are two books in one, but if you're looking for specific details for your niche or industry, use this as a foundation, but don't expect much more.
Short sightedAll of the LOA books say you can have whatever you want but then when it comes to money they say no one's going to magically drop $ in your lap. You have to change how you think , go the extra mile, be more creative, try harder in your job. You have to offer a service. Well what about those who are retired or can't work ? How does the law of attraction work for them?
When you read loads and loads of books about the same subject,it gets hard to be fully pleased by one simple book or author, you mostly get caught up with sameness.This book moved the human mind and attitude and their studies to a whole new level.Super interesting and convincing as well, let alone the very enjoyable narrating style.love it !
The Master at his best....If you don't feel a sense of possibility and personal power after reading this classic , I don't know what you are looking for as far as this type of work is concerned. Simple but hard to re-wire the way we think...... Successfully following the instructions and tenants offered is the best way to improve your life!
While this (very) light read/podcast can and does provide a good boost to one's spirit, i just sensed that his secret is basically a recycled, summarized version of Think and Grow Rich by Napoleon Hill.m (which is a great book). I recommend that book to anyone who was inspired by the strangest secret.
This is a a quick and useful book about being a creative person. I went through it pretty quickly and I am still studying it. I recommend it for anyone who is not satisfied with where they are in life and want to move forward,
The strangest secret takes about 30 minutes to read from cover to cover but is a book you might find yourself reading over and over as you apply its lessons to daily life. I wouldn't discount this book based on how short it is.
"Success is the progressive realization of a worthy ideal" - I think this quote sums the book up. Besides being the best definition of success I've seen, it's something obtainable by everyone (in contrast with the idea of becoming rich). All else follows from the pursuit of being successful.
This book, rather shorti n length, is full of wonderful and uplifting dialogue. I found myself being extremely motivated and pumped for whatever the world throws at me. I highly recommend this to anyone whom is in a slump and needs a moment to breathe.
JUST WONDERFUL! Do listen to his own inspiring words. Earl Nightingale really does unleash the strangest secret in his 30 minutes stupendous recorded classic. The most profound and inspiring words I ever heard.
