https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1703611.John_Brown_s_Body
It is an epic poem of 15,000 words, largely of blank pentameter verse, that covers the raid at Harper’s Ferry and pivotal scenes in the Civil War until Lee’s surrender at Appomattox.
They are introduced to round out the story of the Civil War and the actual events and leaders.
There is a fair amount of coverage to John Brown and the other twenty-one raiders of the Arsenal at Harper’s Ferry.
To appreciate the rest it is helpful to know of the other major Civil War battles and a long list of generals from both sides.
Wow is my response to this incredibly ambitious book-length treatment of the Civil War using poetry in a variety of forms.
This is a complex book and I find that it isn't accurately treated in a lot of descriptions of it, especially those that call it narrative and blank verse.
Sometimes he uses sing-songy rhymed couplets for subject matter that makes the whole passage ironic.It amazes me that this book has not been a subject of more serious criticism, but I can guess why.
I read this, in another edition, more than 20 years ago.
I minored in English many years before that, and really hated reading long pieces of poetry.
He does a lot of marching; he's tired as hell and sick to death of Virginia.
He recognizes the landscape from his youth, fields he had plowed only a couple of years earlier.
Benet does a spectacular job of describing in iambic whatever the climactic charge on 7/3/1863 which results in the soldier losing an arm.
Postwar, the former Union soldier, no longer a boy, peacefully drives a team of plowhorses over a field between Seminary and Cemetery Ridges.
National epics do not make for good poetry.
Virgil, for instance, pales in comparison with Homer.
And of Tennyson's patriotic poems, the most memorable are close to silly rhymes with a jingoistic spirit.
A silly counter-factual question, I know.But I found some lines heart-breakingly good:What do souls that bleed from the corpse of battleSay to the tattered night?...There was no real moon in all the soft, clouded night,The rats of night had eaten the silver cheese,Though here and there a forgotten crumb of old brightnessGleamed and was blotted....
I shall not grow wise.President Lincoln praying:O Will of God,I am a patient man, and I can waitLike an old gunflint buried in the groundWhile the slow years pile up like moldering leavesAbove me, underneath the rake of Time,And turn, in time, to the dark, fruitful moldThat smells of Sangamon apples, till at lastThere's no sleep left there, and the steel eventDescends to strike the live coal out of meAnd light the powder that was always there.At the end of John Brown's trial:There was a noise of chairs scraped back in the court-room,And that huge sigh of a crowd turning back into men.Benet humanizes the Civil War in ways no other work I know of does.
Remarkable poem (which the Wall Street Journal describes as "a half-forgotten piece of middlebrow literature whose own legacy is as ambiguous, in its way, as Brown's."), that tells the Civil War story through the eyes of both Northern and Southern characters, with vignettes of the major historical players.Almost as long as the Iliad, and a little longer than the Odyssey, the term epic, though rejected by Benet, certainly fits.
The poem won the Pulitzer Prize in 1929, but seems to have completely dropped off the radar of the American community of letters.
Thanks, by the way, to Bruce Lambert for bringing this to my attention
My opinion of this is mixed. I love the lyrical history of the war - "Stonewall Jackson, wrapped in his beard and his silence,Cromwell-eyed and ready with Cromwell's shortBleak remedy for doubters and fools and enemies,Hard on his followers, harder on his foes, An iron sabre vowed to an iron Lord, " - etc, etc - but I don't much care for the "story" pieces of the epic poem. I tend to skip over them.
Don't let the length of this poem scare you! It is FASCINATING. Well, if you are interested in the Civil War, that is. And I am. So it is.
This epic poem by Benet beautifully depicts characters from both sides of the American Civil War with malice toward none. It reads easily and naturally, and is in my opinion the great American epic.
I've watched the Ken Burns' brilliant video series, read the Bruce Catton and Jeff Shaara et al novels, but never realized what a unique and different approach poetry would add to the mixture.
Benet's poetry was easy to read.....at times cadenced, at other time prose in stanza form.
Benet made the people of the Civil War come alive....their language, images, feelings, fears, hatreds and loves.
Poetry is a unique vehicle to use to try to describe a war of the scope of the Civil War. Not many could do it, and stay true to events, people's personalities, and the history.
Incredibly well-written epic poem about the root cause and historical course of the bloody, horrific Civil War. Should be mandatory reading for all high school students; especially graduating seniors.
Don't always listen to "mainstream media".
We are what we are as a country because of our history and heritage.
The Civil War had to happen to make these United States what it is today -- the vanguard of freedom, liberty and justice for all.
Nevertheless, it's still the closest approximation of the "shining city on the hill" on this oft wretched planet.Good poem, good book, great read!
A sweeping history of the Civil War in 300+ pages of poetry. It might not sound exquisite, but it was. Benet used so many different styles of verse, and always crafted them perfectly. It took a prodigious talent to pen "John Brown's Body" -- but there were passages that dragged out so long and so formally that they became difficult to follow, and it was a difficulty that subtracted something, some wild joy, from the reading experience -- a joy that I first felt when I picked up the book, that I wanted to continue feeling.
An amazing piece of work - to write an epic poem which encompasses the entire Civil War. It was surprising readable and very interesting. I can't imagine how Benet put it all together. Did he write it in chronological order or in bits and pieces and then cobbled it together? Did he maybe write the battles first and then decide on the characters he was going to use to connect them and then write their parts? An immense accomplishment.
Poetry that reads like prose. Beautiful, touching descriptions of people from slaves to southern gentry to fanatic abolitionists to the weary soldiers and their loved ones from both sides. Won the Pulitzer.
I first read this book in high school and over the years the description of General Lee sitting in his tent has stayed in my memory. I bought an old copy from a second hand seller and had to reread it. The description of Lee is as poignant as I remembered.
A gift from my Grandmom. It was okay.
I liked how the characters from all walks of life crossed each other's paths here and there throughout the story.
Could a Civil War novel in rhyme be good? Believe it or not, this one could.
Patriotic overkill set to verse.
There might be a belief that a poem about the Civil War will be a romantic approach, but I was surprised about how this work just fluttered about the battlefield, from North to South, telling scattered tales from presidents and generals to slaves and privates on the battlefield.
I liked how time passed throughout the war, as we have knowledge of what is to come and the teller of the tale does to.
It's certainly a recommend for anyone interested in poetry, history, or the Civil War. There is blood and hunger and more, but all seems real.
Stephen Vincent Benét had a very squeaky voice or it may have been the recording device.
What interested me was the fact that he was Pennsylvania born.
I would read this book again although this book is structured, although it is Neo classical, it holds something that is hard to preform in the electric era without sounding a certain way.
The beginning is a little rough but the characters that are mentioned are interesting shadows.
He treats the big names of the era with well to do gravitas.
Being from Pennsylvania he, of course, goes into detail about Gettysburg.
Every conflict seems to be mentioned in turn.
The book from which all other Civil War books sprung. If you are a student of the Civil War you must read this. It is thebook from which the scholars learned their first lessons. It should be taught in our schools today. It does not glorify the war, but the men and women who lived through it. It sparks the desire to hear more of the story. It's poetry is the best history lesson possible.
an amazing way to tell this story
More moving than I had anticipated.http://www.historynet.com/john-browns...
As long as you're sure the saddle fits, you're bound to put up with the pinches and not keep fussing the horse."on Joe Johnston - "in advance not always so lucky, in retreat more dangerous than a running wolf"Holds that boys go off to war so they can camp out in the woods and cook potatoes and not have any women around to tell them that the potatoes are black.on Gettysburg - You say a fate rode a horseAhead of those lumbering hosts, and in either handHe carried a skein of omen.
This is an epic poem about the American Civil War. It deals not only with great men, but the men and women of both sides the suffered the horror of that conflict.
Benét pulls little known facts and stories and weaves them into the narrative.
Modern readers may well be put off by some of the words used.
This was published in 1928, and the N-word was in common usage.
If you pass by the terminology, you will see a sympathetic view of the slaves and their desire for freedom.
This is Benét's attempt at writing an Iliad for the U.
A remarkable poem. Some of it feels very modern, and other parts seem anachronistic even for the time it was written, but always the poem is unexpected in the way these events and these people are portrayed. This poem is one of the few things I've read about the civil war that transcends the expected and manages to make human again an event that has become almost hopelessly entwined with the apocryphal.
A moving, epic ode that captures all facets of American life during those troubled years 1859-1865. I saw this performed on stage in high school 1970 and have finally gotten around to reading the entire poem.
