https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240258.The_Dumb_Waiter
এইটা বীভৎস। কয়েকদিন আগে বেকেটের এনডগেইম পড়লাম - বেকেটের সাথে পিনটারের মিল-অমিল দেখলাম অনেকেরই আলোচয। ঠিক ঠিক যে কারণে আমার এনডগেইম ভালো লাগে নাই - পাদদেশে ময়ূরপুচছ আকারের দরশনদারী নিয়ে মঞচে নাটকের আগমন, শেষে এক ধরনের কাহিনী কোনোকালেই ছিলো না হে বাবা, বিদেয় হও দিয়ে শেষ - এইসবের অভাব এই নাটক, মায় কী না ডামব ওয়েটার ভালো লাগার এক একটা কারণ। এখন যদি বলেন, অযাবজারড থেটারে ত কাহিনী থাকবারই কথা ছিলো না, তাহলে আপনি সমেত বাদবাকী পৃথিবীটারে পানিপথের উলটাপাশে রেখে আমি বচসা করতে রাজী আছি। কাহিনী কী, সেই পরশন

I write to complain and receive a reply along the lines of 'You are lucky we didn't charge you for the other shows too.'I can't say that I entirely understand the idea of reading a play any more than, say, reading a music score.
The play is not a complete thing until it has voice and setting and atmosphere.
Atmosphere is completely vital to the success of Pinter, no reading can get across the ambiguity, the menace, the unsettling that takes place.
They created it despite the insane inane background of hysterical audience manufactured laughter and miked standups going on at the same time.
The setting created it.rest here:https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
یک ورژن خیلیی ضعیف تر از در انتظار گودو بود بنظرم.. شاید هم هنوز نفهمیدمش درست ..
فضای جالب و ابزورد و طنزی داشت.سکوتا و بازیای خیلی جذابی میشد از توش در اورد.موضوعش هم کنجکاوی برانگیز و کششدار بود!برعکس چنتا کار کوتاه از پینتر که اخیرن خونده بودم و خیلی گنگ بود و زیاد قابل درک نبود، این یکی در عین ابزورد بودنش، داستانش رو هم میگفت، قویتر از بقیه.دیالوگهای بین دو شخصیت خیلی خوب بودن و احمقانه :))
فضای جالب و ابزورد و طنزی داشت.سکوتا و بازیای خیلی جذابی می‌شد از توش در اورد.موضوعش هم کنجکاوی برانگیز و کشش‌دار بود!برعکس چنتا کار کوتاه از پینتر که اخیرن خونده بودم و خیلی گنگ بود و زیاد قابل درک نبود، این یکی در عین ابزورد بودنش، داستانش رو هم می‌گفت، قوی‌تر از بقیه.دیالوگ‌های بین دو شخصیت خیلی خوب بودن و احمقانه :))
شايدم دو...و پينتر هم مثل همه نمايشنامه نويساي ابزرد ديگه شديدا تحت تاثير بكت و خصوصا در انتظار گودوست... ديگه فعلا پينتر بسه!
I don't know quite what to say about this play--it was my first Pinter experience, and I'd be interested to read more.
But I'd say that I got a lot more through discussing the play in class than in the actual reading of it; which doesn't necessarily discount it, but I'm hesitant to say I loved it, when really I loved the issues that arose peripherally, as my class was perplexed as to what to bring up from within the text.
But it's also Gus, asking questions here, who is going to pay for doing so.
Through it you can see how the human can be anxiety from face the world . i liked character Ben and Jess and the monoling between them .. it' a fine play .
My Plot:The Dumb Waiter is again one of the master piece of Harold Pinter the leading dramatist of the Theater of Absurd, The Play was all about a Two Hit Men, Ben and Gus, Ben is the Senior of the Gang and Gus is a Beginner to the Gang team, They were Hired to Kill someone, the One Act play goes in the Following, Ben reading the Newspaper and spending his time for the victim to come, Gus is making some modification on his shoes, Ben sometimes reads to his friend from the Newspaper and than all of a sudden they make a verbal riot about the Semantic of the Kettle whether it's "Light" or "Put on" the Kettle, This meaningless conversation shows the Absurdity of Humans in the Pinter Theater, after a while a dumb waiter who delivers occasional food order, The Two Characters wants to get rid of him and Gus gets out, After coming back Ben was ready to kill his friend which was his task to perform.
The Dumb Waiter was performed by me (as Ben) and my friend (as Gus) as part of our GCSE finals and was possibly the one play that influenced me to take theatrical studies as an A-level.
We know something is going on when several matches encased in an envelope is slid under the door (which leads to my favourite scene in the play) but it is still the wordplay that Pinter forces out of his characters' mouths that influence the true properties of the play; odd nuences that we in every day life ignore or pass on as regular ("put on the kettle" or "put the kettle on," two phrases that are examined thoroughly in The Dumb Waiter).
If you have read Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot'' before this you will notice Beckett's influence on Pinter.
Pinter's style did appeal more to me...it is very obvious that from the very beginning of the play Ben is the dominant character who keeps bossing Gus around.
Since the beginning Gus questions the routine of life which annoys him, he keeps asking Ben questions like ''why doesn't Wilson ever bothers to show up'' or ''who cleans after they had done wit their job?'' while Ben either avoids his questions or stays silent and the more Gus asks him questions the more he seems to be irritated.
Pinter, at his best.
even more confused
تلك المراقبة الثقافية الإنكليزية لتفاقم صراعات الوعي في الأنماط الجديدة، كما جرت بين بريخت ويونسكو وخلافات التعبير عن المنهج الواحد بين سارتر وكامو ومنهجية التضاد بين أونيل وويليامز، كانت جميعها تنصب بهدوء في الدائرة الإنكليزية المتابعة للتطور الثقافي لأوروبا وأمريكا، دون معرفة منهجية للخلاص من نير الكلاسيك التاريخي لشكسبير ومارلو، فأتت محاولات خجولة وتجريبية كان من روادها “برنارد كوبس، جون آردن، أرنولد ويسكر، جون أوزيورن” وغيرهم آخرون، الذين ارتبطت أسمائهم بمسرح الرويال كورت، بمن فيهم هارولد بنتر.لكن بنتر كان الوحيد الذي فكر بطريقة مختلفة نسبياً لإنقاذ التاريخ المسرحي الإنكليزي، فأتت أعماله خلال أربعين عاماً لاحقة لتتوج إنكلترا مرة جديدة كثقافة مسرحية أسست لاستمرار ذلك الفن رغم التطور الهائل الذي تعرض له العالم فيما بعد وبالأخص مراحل تصاعد السينما والتلفزيون.في النص الذي كتبه بنتر وصدر عام 1961 “الخادم الأخرس The Dumb Waiter” رغم أسلوبيته التجديدية، فهو لا يخلو أبداً من التأثر العميق بأعمال غيره من الكتاب وبالأخص صاموئيل بيكيت، وإن كانت الحبكة الدرامية مختلفة كلياً، لكننا نرى في النص ذلك التوجس المخيف من علاقة الإنسان مع العالم الخارجي، والريبية إزاء كل فعل يقوم به، مع أنسنة للحوار والشخوص أكثر من عمل بيكيت “في انتظار غودو”.
I hadn't read any Pinter before this but I now want to read more.
This a compact play that succeeds on many levels.
It is funny, disturbing and intelligent and also absurd, perplexing and challenging.
The play seems to be designed to be read on many levels, more overtly than many plays.
There is a clear political hierarchy being critiqued, as well as interpersonal politics to contend with but there are also deliberate loose ends that demand the reader/audience insert their own conclusions.
Naturalistic versus symbolic action and dialogue are also up for grabs.A tightly packed short play that is as satisfying to unpick as it is to read.
I've always sort of enjoyed absurdist drama, it's so damn funny to read the character's interactions. I didn't, however, particularly enjoy reading this play, but that's mostly due to human error. Reading absurdist plays, you have to imagine what's going on and read between the lines, and sometimes it's just better to watch the play because you can see the characters right in front of you. I'll change my review on this play later, but it is a annoying reminder of why I dislike reading plays.
This play reminded me a lot of Samuel Beckett. However, I think that Beckett executes the Theatre of the Absurd slightly better than Pinter. In "Endgame" I really felt the despair and helplessness of the characters, while in "The Dumb Waiter", I felt less attachment to the characters.
i bought this play as a birthday present to myself, in 1998, when i turned twenty-two (the year my oldest son was born). it was suggest to me by a writer friend of mine who told me:"You would like Harold Pinter."in 2002 i directed and acted in the play with my friend Galen Howard.
3.5 Stars Rating might change when I watch an available version of the play one day. Fun fact: When you don't read the blurb ... it makes the play that much more mysterious.
If you love the Theater of the Absurd, you will think this play a masterpiece.
The play follows two hit men as they wait in a room for an assignment.
The dialogue is comic between the two men.
They read the paper, they argue about things.
They hear a sound and discover a dumb waiter system in the room.If you do not love the Theater of the Absurd, you will, while appreciating Pinter's mastery of dialogue, be more upset that the play really goes nowhere.
The play, as far as I can tell, doesn't really have a point.
This was a great read. The realism of the situation combined with the few ridiculous absurdities made for an entertaining read. Two men, waiting in a basement to kill someone where the toilet doesn't flush properly and someone keeps sending orders for food down the dumb waiter of an old restaurant.  The mechanics are beautifully woven with entertaining dialogue and a mysterious and shocking ending. Definitely worth the read. Now I must watch the play!
Esta es la primera obra de Pinter que leo y quedé con muchas ganas de conocer más, aunque no fue completamente de mi agrado me gustó mucho la atmósfera que crea el autor en un espacio tan estrecho y los diálogos, siempre por la tangente, sin llegar al fondo de nada.
Loved seeing the representation of the Theatre of the Absurd!
There is something very intriguing about this play and characters that keep you reading until the end. I loved the suspense at the end as well.
Hilariously shocking
I would recommend to previously read a guide of the play to fully understand it, otherwise it's just two persons in the same room for a long while
A play about confusion, things not being as expected. It surely would make more sense as a staged play.
Overrated.
I have to admit that the atmosphere which Pinter creates kept me reading until the end, wanting to know more. However, the story was quite dull in my opinion and I don't know if I'll read anything else from this author.
Some plays are more easily read than others; some need a stage to best come alive.
I've been fortunate enough to see it in a black box theatre and to act in a cut-down scene for a friend's directing class long, long ago, so I'd even venture to say that I enjoyed it most when I watched it while following along with the text.That being said, if you don't have the opportunity to see it performed, I'd say this is definitely worth the read.
Cause he is curious and asks a lot!هارولد پینتر با اولین نمایش نامه اش "اتاق" به مکتب "تیاتر بیهودگی" پیوست، و به سرعت کنار نام آوران این نوع تیاتر قرار گرفت.
پینتر با اقتباس برخی نوشته هایش، تعدادی فیلم نامه هم نوشته که مشهورترین آنها "مستخدم" 1963 و "تصادف" اند که هر دو توسط "جوزف لوزی" ساخته شد، "بازگشت به خانه" 1964، "واسطه" 1970، خیانت 1978، "زن گروهبان فرانسوی" 1981 و...
در مورد پینتر و آثارش به اینجا مراجعه کنیدhttp://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...در مورد "تیاتر ابزورد" اینجا را بخوانیدhttp://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
