https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/648640.The_Moving_Target
I’m disappointed in me, too.It’s a weird oversight because it’s not like I haven’t been aware of the Lew Archer series since I started picking up PI novels, and I’d even seen and enjoyed the two film adaptations Harper and The Drowning Pool that starred Paul Newman.
(Old school PIs seem more at risk for CTE than football players.)All of this sounds like standard stuff for a detective novel from it’s SoCal setting to the dialogue, but like the best writers of the genre it’s all done well and with a style that makes the most of the tropes of it.
True, The Moving Target (Archer #1) lacks a family tragedy with haunted children that is the hallmark of later Archer, and it also lacks a disciplined series of images--both in metaphor and in the visuals evoked by the narrative--that carry us to the heart of the classic Archer tale.
The fringes of Hollywood are handled with flair (a sleazy piano bar with B-girls and a coke-head soloist, plus a has-been actress--and former S&M club mistress of ceremonies--turned astrologer/grifter), Archer's narrative voice is spare, elegant and already close to perfect, the imagery is precise, and the picture of a money-obsessed Southern California society living off the energy of countless anonymous Mexicans and Filipinos is very well done.
I should have listened to the friendly doughnut who tried to warn me that starting a series from the beginning is completely unnecessary .
at least in the case of the Lew Archer series.
Archer is a likable guy, but pretty undeveloped.
Don't get me wrong - I'm thrilled that there's not a lot of backstory, but I don't think a personality is too much to ask.
Still, there's a lot of promise here, and the writing is solid.
I'll be taking The Galton Case for a spin in a couple of weeks, so we'll see Doughnut man, we'll see.
I look forward to reading them.Coming back to the debut Archer novel, the first thing I like is the sense of place and time : the fictional town of santa Teresa in the California Hills in the aftermath of World War Two. A place of opulent mansions perched precariously on the sides of dry canyons, overlooking the ocean.
Even the sea looked precious through it, a solid wedge held in the canyon's mouth, bright blue and polished like a stone.
Lew Archer is a private investigator down on his luck; he has to take divorce cases to make a living.
I am really sorry but I have to use Philip Marlowe as a sample to measure Lew Archer's worth against.
The influence by Philip Marlowe over Lew Archer is very obvious and unmistakable; however the latter has his own distinctive voice.
I always wondered whether Philip Marlowe would develop chronic headaches because of such injuries; in case of Archer I am sure he will: his poor head suffered at least 4 times just in the first book, unless I am mistaken.
Millionaire Ralph Sampson has been kidnapped and it's up to Lew Archer to find him.
But what does the kidnapping have to do with an aging astrologer-actress, a piano player, and a holy man Sampson once gave a mountain to?The Moving Target was a fast-paced noir thriller.
Archer kept getting deeper and deeper into trouble.
One thing I really liked was that Archer wasn't a super-hero.
Archer gets knocked out way too many times.
From what I hear, he breaks away from the Phillip Marlowe role in later books but I kept thinking of Marlowe while I was reading this.The Moving Target is a good noir read.
Πολύ καλό.
3.5, really. A shaky start, but really took off near the halfway mark. A sturdy emulation of Chandler's style with flashes of more racial/societal sympathies than you'll find in Marlowe's embittered worldview. But, more importantly, my edition has a 5-star cover that asks the hard question, Why is there a target wedged in a pair of ass cheeks? You will not find the answer between the covers.
They went out of high school into the army or the air corps and made good in a big way.
Big deal here is that Archer is a kind of snooty, moralistic type.
Worth millions from his assorted oil wells, the husband astray for twenty-four hours is fond of giving away a fortune when he’s lubed up from the booze he consumes while on benders.The wife hopes to catch her husband out on the town with another woman – in flagrante delicioso, preferably.Naturally, Lew Archer don’t play no divorce cases but an old pal, formerly the D.
A., now currently in private practice with one prominent client –the missing husband and his family, beseeches Archer to take the case as a favor.And then there’s the missing man’s daughter, “Miranda”.
The accusations of "warmed-over Raymond Chandler" are deserved, but it turns out that warmed-over Raymond Chandler is still pretty good. Take the socialite wife client, amoral wealthy victim, flirtatious daughter, and all the usual tough guys and fallen women, stir well and add some intrigue. The plot is pretty obvious at times but it never ruins the enjoyment of a good post-WWII southern California detective story, the first of many featuring Lew Archer. The movie version is "Harper" with Paul Newman and Lauren Bacall.
The Moving Target is the second Ross Macdonald book I’ve read this summer (Instant Enemy was the other).
I still don’t know much of Mr. Macdonald outside of his brief bio and cool, lean cop-meets-journalist-meets insurance salesman jacket picture, but I want to learn more.
His The Moving Target is the rare book that both validates and transcends its genre.Macdonald’s (anti)hero, Lew Archer, is a private detective with all the expected private detective characteristics (few friends, shady history, bad habits) but the author combines insightful self-loathing with a relentless moral compass and creates a tough, exhausted hybrid detective.
The Moving Target is part of a three book “Archer in Hollywood” arc.
No bills larger than a hundred, no marked bills, don't call the police(potentially an illegal deal), have the money ready when he comes for it or an agent sent.The whole thing smells of a kidnapping.Archer knows he doesn't have a lot of time because the millionaire will likely be killed as soon as the agent picks the money up.Nicely plotted tale.
Add in a twenty year old daughter who wants one man who doesn't want her, a man twice her age who does, Archer who enjoys the kiss she gives him to make the one she wants jealous but otherwise believes her too young(he's fifteen years older), and a sheriff that doesn't like Archer interfering(is there any other kind in a PI novel).Originally published in 1949, the novel was made into the Paul Newman film HARPER in 1966.
Lamenting the lack of any new Philip Marlowe novels, I recalled having read The Drowning Pool long ago.
Now Lew Archer is here to fill that empty place where a hard-shelled PI with a hard head drives here and there in the Los Angeles basin doing dirty work for nasty people.
I’m not a critic of the genre, but I do look for a Chandleresque approach to language, because that’s what I enjoy.
This was a good book, a very entertaining film noir in my head, and a now I have uncovered hidden stash of hard-ass trouble, which I plan to relish.
El primer libro de Lew Archer comienza con un caso sencillo, que se enreda y se mete en cosas mucho más complicadas. Cada vez que Archer entra a un lugar preguntando algo, alguien con un secreto turbio cree que está tras de él y decide incluirlo en sus problemas. Es un trabajo duro el de los detectives privados de California a finales de los años '40. Y siempre detrás de todo está el dinero.
More of a character than the cipher of the book, he does a good job as a man who knows he’s slightly out of time and is amused at the fact.
Undoubtedly though the film is good looking and fast paced and an enjoyable sunny romp of a detective thriller.
And that is both its charm and its problem, as while enjoyable sunny romps are good they’re not necessarily what you want from a thriller.(Why was the character’s name changed from Archer?
To πρώτο αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα του ΜακΝτόναλντ όπου μας 'συστήνει' τον μυστηριώδη ντετέκτιβ, Λιού Άρτσερ (1949).
Και όλα αυτά ξεδιπλώνονται κάτω από τη συνεχόμενη απειλή του 'Μακαρθισμού', τον οποίον ο ΜακΝτόναλντ καταφέρνει να κατακεραυνώσει ειρωνικά μέσω κάποιων διαλόγων μεταξύ προσώπων της βιομηχανίας του Χόλυγουντ, τα οποία απειλούνταν με διαγραφή λόγω 'υποτιθέμενων' αντιαμερικάνικων πολιτικών πεποιθήσεων.Το 2ο μέρος είναι πιο ουσιαστικό, γρήγορο και δυνατό οδηγώντας σε συνεχείς ανατροπές και σε μία δίκαιη λύση που δεν την περιμένει ο αναγνώστης.
Αμερική λίγο μετά την μεγάλη οικονομική κρίση και την Ποτοαπαγόρευση.
Ένα βιβλίο που όχι απλά ασχολείται με το έγκλημα, αλλά γεννιέται μέσα στη πηγή του εγκλήματος.
Δεν είχα ξανά διαβάσει έργο του συγκεκριμένου συγγραφέα, αλλά ψάχνοντας μερικές πληροφορίες για την ζωή του διαπίστωσα ποσό πολύ απεικονίζει τον ψυχισμό του μέσα στα κείμενα.
Αν και το θέμα του βιβλίου είναι σχετικά σύνηθες- εκατομμυριούχος που εξαφανίζεται και όλοι γύρω του έχουν έναν καλό λόγο να είναι ύποπτοι- κερδίζει σε δράση και η αφήγηση είναι κάθε άλλο παρά βαρετή!Αυθεντικό “hard-boiled» έργο που περιγράφει τα θύματα, τους θύτες και γενικά πραγματικούς ανθρώπους που παλεύουν καθημερινά για μία καθόλου δεδομένη επιβίωση.
Sparse, crisp, raw, muscular prose. In his first Lew Archer novel, MacDonald shows himself the equal of Hammett, Chandler, Thompson, Cain or anyone else who wrote in the noir/hardboiled style. MacDonald doesnt have quite the same flair to his writing as Hammett or Chandler, at least not in this first offering, and his plots are not as twisted. I suspect, though, I may end up with MacDonald on the top of my list by the time I am finished with his body of work.
The first of Grandmaster MacDonald's Lew Archer series is pretty much what you would expect from a talented young writer trying to emulate Chandler and Hammett. It's better written than most that followed but it's also derivative and obvious. A solid start but he gets better with age and experience.
Ross Macdonald channels his inner Raymond Chandler in The Moving Target with his protagonist Lew Archer coming across as a long lost, less competent and less witty cousin of Philip Marlowe.Archer is hired to find a missing millionaire who might be out on a booze binge or been kidnapped.
Terse prose, cynical private eye, femme fatales, a lot of sleaze and every other noir trope flourishes throughout the narrative.The writing shows promise but Macdonald relies a bit too heavily on the style that Chandler had cemented as his own.
Even the characters remind me of Chandler.
His homage to Chandler might be a bit derivative but it is still a well plotted noir.
This is the book of Lew Archer series and I really liked it.4* The Moving Target (Lew Archer #1)3* T
Ross Macdonald has been on my to-do list for a while and I have finally taken the dive.
This is the first in the "Lew Archer" series.
Set in post-war California, Lew is a private detective in this case on the hunt for a missing man.
Kidnapped?
Dead?
I won't give it away.
Lew Archer has a few suspects to choose from and he acts deftly to figure it all out.We've seen the plot many times before, but for those who like the Chandler-esque style of writing, this is for you.
It's my understanding that the Lew Archer series only gets better.
This year I finally ran out of Dashell Hammett and Raymond Chandler novels to read so I had to strike off into the noir wilderness to find someone new.
I'd seen such smiles in mortuaries on the false face of death.
It reminded me that I was going to grow old and die.""They went out of high school into the Army or the Air Corps and made good in a big way.
Some of them couldn't take it and went bad.
They thought the world was their oyster and couldn't understand why it had been snatched away from them.
I couldn't decide, I liked the writing but suppose I like more heart and less description of breasts, I certainly enjoy Chandler more(who he is so clearly drawing from).
The one-liners had me laughing through the book though...and I loved this early description of the canyons up north of L.A.The light-blue haze in the lower canyon was like a thin smoke from slowly burning money.
Even the sea looked precious through it, a solid wedge held in the canyon's mouth, bright blue and polished like a stone.
She was looking at Taggert.
Taggert was looking nowhere in particular.
Not as good as The Drowning Pool but The Moving Target still has a lot to offer as far as suspense and a gripping plot goes.
Lew is a LA detective who simply won't stop until justice is done and if not justice, then the puzzle is solved and life is good (as good as it gets) once again.
Their background and background only prepared them to write with such clarity and readability.The Black Mask was one of the few publications available for these talented writers who are the basis of the mystery authors we love and read today such as Crais, Connelly, Sandford, Burke, Parker and Lescroart, to name just a few.The Black Mask has a wonderful website to review including the dramatic and colorful covers of the pulps and the 'dime detective' series, all in their golden age of popularity.
The first Lew Archer book written by Ross MacDonald is also the first Lew Archer book that I have read. It is a delightfully crafted story of kidnapping and murder featuring the quintessential hard-boiled PI who combines his wits and fists to solve the case. I found MacDonald's writing and story very reminiscent of Raymond Chandler's, my favorite. I will definitely be looking to read more of Archer's cases in the future.
it's a great start to the series. I really enjoyed the beginning and middle chapters. Though wasn't quite the strongest note at the end. still a thoroughly enjoyable mystery and I'm looking forward to the next in the series.
I think that Macdonald meant “The Moving Target” to signify the illusive post war happiness that post-war Americans will not have (Fitzgerald’s “orgiastic future”—always just over the horizon.) Could Archer be experiencing his own bitterness at not attaining this happy future?
It has made him as depressed as many other failed seekers after the American Dream of money, community envy, and self-respect.
Maybe he's thinking he has sunken at least a bit into the degradation by being so involved in it.When discussing Albert Graves with DA Humphries, Archer equates Graves with the other dreamers after materialism and ease, those Archer has studied as part of his profession.
Ross Macdonald.
****.Lew Archer is on the case in this combination novel involving kidnapping and murder.
A man named Samson has disappeared and his wife calls in Archer to help find him.
Samson is a very wealthy man.
Lew Archer thinks it’s a hopeless case from the start.
Archer gets help from the local law enforcement personnel and a former DA, who is also one of the daughter’s suitors, but who can you trust?
This is good stuff from Macdonald, and was also made into the film “Harper” some years back.
