https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64119.The_Meaning_of_Liff
Read ABOUT it here.&Read the entire thing online here."In Life*, there are many hundreds of common experiences, feelings, situations and even objects which we all know and recognize, but for which no words exist.On the other hand, the world is littererd with thousands of spare words which spend their time doing nothing but loafing about on signposts pointing at places.Our job, as wee see it, is to get these words dow off the signposts and into the mouths of babes and sucklings and so on, where they can start earning their keep in everyday conversation and make a more positive contribution to society.*And, indeed, in Liff." -The Authors
I think that the only reason I put off reading this book for so long is that this is the last thing I'll ever read of the amazing Douglas Adams.
But this is pure Douglas and that should be enough if you still harbor doubts.No review of "Liff" is complete without a few examples, so please, accompany me in the enjoyment of the definitely missing words of:ABILENE - Descriptive of the pleasing coolness on the reverse side of the pillow.ESHER - One of these push taps installed in public washrooms enabling the user to wash their trousers without actually getting into the basin.
Not that Mr Adams was a huge friend of the plot, if he said hello to a plot and held out his arms open to it, then one could be sure that it was with the idea in his mind of tripping it up and sending it sprawling towards the dog's bed.I am 73.65% sure that I got this from the second hand book sale stall which weekly would be put out for our temptation in the student's union ballroom on trestle tables by a fairly washed out looking bloke who drove around the universities of middle England, out of the kindest of his heart offering students the opportunity to part with their money - for is it not written that money is the root of all evil?
Or maybe I got it somewhere entirely different, eventually I parted company with the book for we are all wanderers through this wide and wicked world.
Only on page 11 and find that I can safely and assuredly rate 'The Meaning of Liff' 5 out of 5. Pure humour, pure quintessential Britishness and pure, unadulterated Douglas Adams.
If only I can remember every single word in it.
it really gave me a load of great laughs!I have to admit right off that I've always been a HUGE fan of the style and wit of Douglas Adams from the very first chapter I ever read of his famous "Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy".I had finished the series and even the Dirk Gently stories, but then one day in the book store came across this...
The only book this is comparable to in any way is of course the dictionary, which in the words of the great E.
This book made me go all gallipoli. And it's not the great tosson, so it fits on your bookshelf just nice and kentucky. It's usefulness in life is such that it'll never be just some old ballycumber that lies around, but instead, the first book you reach for when the great wakering sets in. It also has some quotes from the great writers to illustrate how they have used words from this nifty little dictionary:"Jasmine yorked politely, loathing him to the depths of her being." Virginia Woolf
"HITURA (s.)Mikä tahansa radiosta kuultu musiikkikappale, jota on kuunneltava hyvin tarkkaan voidakseen päätellä onko kyseessä mainosralli vai oikea levy.
Hituroiden lisääntyminen on toinen keskeisistä syistä siihen, että ihmisten kiinnostus rock-musiikkia kohtaan on romahtanut.
Toinen on Rod Stewart."Douglas Adamsin ja John Lloydin hirtehisen "Meaning of Liffin" suomenkielinen sovitus on varsin nerokas tekele.
Kyseisen teoksen suomentaminen sellaisenaan olisikin liki mahdottomuus, sillä kirjassa esitellään paikannimiä ja niille uudet merkitykset.
Tyyliin: Hartola (s.): lyhyt, mutta järkähtämättömän vakava kiitosrukous, jolla luostarissa siunataan voileipäkeksit ennen teehetkeä.Elimäen tarkoitus kannattaa nauttia pieninä erinä kerrallaan, jottei pääse syntymään puutumista.
Hyvin monen nimen kohdalla mietin, että onko oikeasti Suomessa sen nimistä paikkaa (esimerkiksi Muhlu, Römppee, Tönnö, Syllödä tai Helsinki ;-).
«Il nome originale di Piton è Snape, che potrebbe sembrare una storpiatura di "snake", ma in realtà è il nome di un paesino».«Wow!»«Il secondo nome di Hermione è Jean, all'inizio era Jane, ma la Rowling l'ha cambiato perché avrebbe finito per condividere lo stesso secondo nome della Umbridge».«Non sapevo neanche questo».«Vuoi che ti elenchi tutti gli incantesimi in ordine alfabetico o preferisci in ordine di apparizione nei libri?»«Facciamo la prossima volta, ora devo andare a toglierti dagli amici di Facebook».SUZANOChi va da solo al cinema di pomeriggio.WUHAIGruppo di WhatsApp archiviato ma non cancellato perché cancellarlo significherebbe ammettere che i rapporti tra i membri non sono più quelli di prima.WUHANChi riporta alla luce un Wuhai.WUHULa reazione di finta allegria in onore dei vecchi tempi dei membri di un Wuhai dopo l'intervento di un Wuhan.
There's not much room for books of "humour" in my life, why waste time reading delightfully inventive meanings for those place names that you just cannot believe are real when you could be reading a deep and heartfelt narrative of loss and despair?
or even simply groaned in disbelief and the bizarre nature of town naming when confronted with Wormelow Tump (n.) Any seventeen year old who doesn't know about anything at all in the world other than bicycle gears.
I am a huge Douglas Adams's fan! and frankly, I will sit and read even a "liff" by him. It is amusing and nostalgic. Surprisingly made me realize how small things have changed over time(way of living). Anyone who has conscious memories of mid-1990's or past will be able to relate to most of the incidents. I enjoyed reading it.
Everything Douglas Adams did was brilliant.
If you like "tasting" words you will enjoy this book.
such outré!and to think that it's the first book in a trilogy
Would have been more enjoyable to read slowly bit by bit over time instead of trying to plow right through my library copy. I didn’t realize this is a “dictionary” of place names. Some of this was really funny and spot on and some was less so. Still, Douglas Adams was such an amazing observer of life and some definitions were so hilarious that I give this a 4stars.
If I encounter someone using these words in everyday conversation, I think we will become fast friends.
Douglas Adams is amazing as expected. It can get a little tiresome to read this book straight through, but I think it's fantastic for random flipping. I was very impressed with how well Adams and Lloyd seemed to know the random scenarios/things which could use definitions.
Just read it. He fell of dead from his own hometrainer. Like his death, such are his books.
Some definitions in typical 'Douglese':AINDERBY STEEPLE (n.)One who asks you a question with the apparent motive of wanting to hear youranswer, but who cuts short your opening sentence by leaning forward and saying'and I'll tell you why I ask...' and then talking solidly for the next hour.BANFFPertaining to, or descriptive of, that kind of facial expression which is impossible toachieve except when having a passport photograph taken.BELPERA knob of someone else's chewing gum which you unexpectedly find your handresting on under a deck's top, under the passenger seat of your car or onsomebody's thigh under their skirt.CLIXBY (adj.)Politely rude.
Firmly uninformative.CORRIEARKLET (n.)The moment at which two people approaching from opposite ends of a longpassageway, recognise each other and immediately pretend they haven't.

I didn't really like it, but I think it was because of the Czech translation...
Reading this book while working at Neu-Art Signs in Toronto. Brian McCall was reading over my shoulder and we were both laughing so hard, tears running out, gasping for air...
Marvelous, silly, ridiculous fun with the English language, as only can be had with the English language.
Langt fra så morsom jeg håpet den skulle være. Hadde forventet meg mye mer. Slet med å komme meg gjennom..
Totally silly, useless and pythonesque dictionary. Also hilarious. Goodreaders will appreciate the words Ahenny and Ballycumber.
A giggly tiny coffee table book of definitions. Always good for a laugh!
Utter genius.
Makes you look at life differently, giving a new kind of appreciation for details in life you probably never think about, bringing a feeling of universal connection between all things, living or not.
A dictionary that reaches beyond the boundaries that separate us all and bring us together; a life-changing read, one that will bring an idea of what the meaning of life could possibly be as seen through the lens of ordinary yet extraordinary life.
This dictionary shows us how extraordinary life can be found in ordinary, everyday life.Closely linked to the thinking of Ambroce Bierce with his Devil's Dictionary or Carl Jung's idea of Archetypes/a universal consciousness & memory; yet not any less spectacular.
I didn't really find it that funny and lots of the situations I didn't recognise. A few a did, but it was more like "oh yes that thing.." rather than laugh out loud funny. I don't think my humour is very verbal-based. It also seemed like lots of stuff was related to posh stuff/different culture to me, and/or men so that might also explain why I didn't 'get' lots of it.
I love the creativity of Douglas Adams, how he can be so random and whimsical and funny at the same time. My only suggestion with this book is that it not be read all at once. It's really best read it small pieces at a time, or used as a reference book. Because every definition is utterly made up, all the randomness can lose its novelty fairly quickly.
