https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/916856.Miss_Pettigrew_Lives_for_a_Day
A friendship starts to form, and one thing leads to another in the most crazy, wonderful day the downtrodden Miss Pettigrew has ever experienced in her life.In so many ways this novel is delightful, fluffy fun, with a delicious sense of humor.
If you're going to be deeply offended by this sort of thing, or by things like a man physically trying to shake some sense into the woman he loves, you should probably give this a hard pass.Miss Pettigrew, like Valancy in L.M. Montgomery's delightful The Blue Castle, is a dispirited, bullied woman ready to start breaking society's rules.
Turn a lovely evening into a memorable horror-show about which people will wince for years?I was motoring through this book and thinking it was kind of a British counterpart to Anita Loos' Gentlemen Prefer Blondes – well, actually, it was The Monkees to Anita Loos' Beatles, but still good fun, as The Monkees are, when Miss Pettigrew on page 162 offers some advice to Miss LaFosse, who is trying to choose between two suitors :"Now the first one, he was kind too," said Miss Pettigrew earnestly, "but well, my dear.
Delightful book. Wonderful little story that was so charming and so innocent I found myself falling in love with Miss Pettigrew page after page. Her kindness, her goodness and her naivety were all described so perfectly. I loved all the characters, loved the storyline itself, and found myself shedding a little tear on the last page. Gorgeous.
She, Miss Pettigrew, spinster, maiden lady, dull nonentity, jobless, incompetent, was bound for a night club, clad in splendour: painted like the best of them, shameless as the worst of them, uplifted with ecstasy.
‘Oh!’ thought Miss Pettigrew blissfully, ‘I think I’d like to die to-night before I waken up.’This is Pure, Unadulterated ESCAPISM!
Utter delight and bliss!Dear Fellow Readers!You know the feeling that grabs hold of you when you are reading a delicious book that has been on your TBR-shelf for too long: WHY HAVEN'T I READ THIS BEFORE??!!!
Right now I feel like being high on something: maybe sugar.
Loosely a modern(ish - the book was first published in 1938) re-imagining of Cinderella, the story takes place over the course of a single day so the pacing is brisk.
It also oddly reads a bit like a play as most of the story takes place in a single room everyone walks in and out of - though maybe that was just the style of rom-coms back then?
Though not an “important” or highly distinguishable novel, I’m glad that Persephone Books rescued Miss Pettigrew Lives For a Day from an obscurity it doesn’t deserve.
While I enjoyed the movie very much, I loved this book and flew through it.
Miss Pettigrew has been repressed and oppressed and one day, after meeting Delysia LaFosse, throws her convictions to the wind and decides to enjoy herself.
She has the best time of her life, makes tons of new friends, becomes a sort of "fixer" for Delysia and her degenerate crowd, earns the admiration of a host of young people, and possibly finds a little romance of her own ...
This is a short, charming read, and I smiled the entire time I was reading it.
"She prayed desperately for a knock on the door. A knock on Miss LaFosse's door heralded adventure. It was not like an ordinary house, when the knocker would be the butcher, or baker or candlestick-maker. A knock on Miss LaFosse's door would mean excitement, drama, a new crisis to be dealt with."—Miss PettigrewDear, Miss Pettigrew! A woman after my own heart! Practically on the steps of the workhouse, Miss Pettigrew can't imagine that her last ditch effort to secure a post as a governess will l
A knock on Miss LaFosse's door would mean excitement, drama, a new crisis to be dealt with."—Miss PettigrewDear, Miss Pettigrew!
Practically on the steps of the workhouse, Miss Pettigrew can't imagine that her last ditch effort to secure a post as a governess will lead to a twenty-four hour day of glamour, excitement and the way the other half (or sinners, as her vicar would say) live.
A cold body means a pinched look and a red nose.'"I'm sure that I'll be coming round to this one quite frequently, just like The Diary of a Provincial Lady.
And you glance at the clock, and do the math (it will take you x number of hours to read this book) and decide you’d better clear your calendar for the next day.
And then a truly horrible thought leaps into your mind - that if you were a widow you would not have to stop reading this book in order to make dinner for your husband.
And that’s when your husband decides that NOW he wants to talk to you, and you think that maybe your earlier thoughts had not really been all that harsh?That was how this book made me feel.
Miss Pettigrew is endearing with her mixture of naivety and wisdom, and I couldn't resist following her on her day of freedom from social mores, discovering a world of brilliance and luxury totally different from her own drab existence.
The scenes between her and the various characters she meets are often very funny, full of ridicule, and pure theatre.Through those few hours, she readjusts her moral compass to great humour.
Thank you Persephone Books for rescuing this little gem.PS: What is it about the surname Pettigrew?
Two of my favourite books have it in their title (the other is Major Pettigrew's Last Stand)
A fairy tale for the faint-hearted.The charming story of how young Winnie came to write a book claims that her first job didn't exactly tax her time, so she filled her empty work hours with novels.
I'll put in my visa application tomorrow.)I'm touched by his confidence in her abilities, but I do wish he'd directed her to better reading instead.
And like all good fairy tales, it has a moral: only drink enough Manhattans or Snake's Venoms or Death in the Afternoons and you can shake off all social awkwardness and say anything to anyone, and what's more they will find you charming.
I was supposed to be doing homework, but I chose to spend an hour finishing Miss Pettigrew instead.
If that makes sense at all.
See the movie because Frances McDormand is Miss Pettigrew, and it is perfect.
The film also features Lee Pace, aka Clive Owen's Hotter Long-Lost Twin.
Here, have an excerpt: " 'That's cocaine,' said Miss LaFosse.
No!' Terrified, aghast, thrilled, Miss Pettigrew stared at the innocent-looking powder.
Then her common sense unhappily reminded her that no one, now, would care to deprive her of that possession.
It was Miss LaFosse who was in danger.
However, as the title of this novel indicates, we get to follow Miss Pettigrew on a special day when she encounters enough adventures to last her for a lifetime.
A lot of Miss Pettigrew's adventures were very entertaining to read about, and I liked how this book deals with how everyone has a different side inside of them.
It was very easy to like Miss Pettigrew, and while some of her behaviour and her adventures were a little bit exaggerated, it was still very entertaining to follow her day from hour to hour and change together with her.
Aside from some outdated views in certain places in this book, it was delightful. Very enjoyable.

This was a 2 star read, but the extra star was for a narrative and romance focusing on a middle aged spinster. There were so many sexist passages that made me cringe, and a few racist ones, too. I love the movie adaptation so much more than this source material. It was quaint and fun sort of story, but severely dated to the point of not being that enjoyable for me.
As she enters Miss LaFosse's flat these two side battle as she notes the pictures on the walls are ''not quite decent'' (p4), yet she feels ''a strange kind of excitement'' (P5).Unlike the people she has come across all her life, Delysia and her friend Edythe treat Miss Pettigrew kindly and as an equal.
So do their lovers by not subjecting her to the ''polite, excluding courtesies that had been her measure from men all her life '' (9).As the day develops so does Miss Pettigrew's fun side as she abandons many of her former beliefs and gives herself up wholeheartedly to her new friends who appreciate her worth.I recommend this book.
I hesitated over giving this book five stars.
How can I give something so frivolous five stars?" I summed up the plot in my head to see if some Serious, Important aspect of the novel had slipped past my notice.
(Several times.) I essentially read it in two sittings.
It made me extoll the virtues of both book and movie to a friend, so much so that we're having a movie night next week.When was the last time a book had done that for me?
The year before?If Pride and Prejudice can be a five star novel, so can this.
This is such a delightful read, I loved it from beginning to end!
I've been reading so many books lately that I wished would have been shorter but with Miss Pettigrew I wish the book would have been much longer:) I can't believe I came across this charming, beguiling, uplifting, feel good tale by pure chance, it must have been my lucky day!
I just love Watson's writing, the way she portrays the characters and their feelings.
Miss Pettigrew really is a gem and such a refreshing read!
Delightful, will read this one again in the future.
4 Stars for the book, 5th star for the narrator, Frances McDormand)A fun book written in 1938, that takes place in London and is the basis of the 2008 film with Frances McDormand as Miss Pettigrew and Amy Adams as the nightclub singer, Delysia Lafosse.
Delysia befriends Pettigrew and takes her on an entertaining adventure.
A day in the life of Delysia, so to speak.
We also see the effect Pettigrew has on Delysia.
A fun book, with excellent narration by McDormand.
When I watch a movie or read a book it was based on, I try to see them as separate entities.
О Боже Боже Боже Боже Это восторг, конечно, но очень важно попасть в настроение, нет, я не знаю, как, но знаю, что год назад книжка у меня случайно не пошла, и я чуть не удалила её из киндла, а сегодня читала в метро, читала на ходу, читала в перерыве между занятиями, выделяла, волновалась и в конце расплакалась от умиления. DELIGHTFUL!
This was a fun book to read but I found myself slightly frustrated with the main theme of the book, especially with reading Emer O’Toole’s “Girls will be Girls” alongside this. I think this quote from the book sums it up; “Every female was linked possessively by some male.”
I adore this book. It was so utterly beautiful and lovely, one of those novels that takes such pleasure in life and really captures a sense of happiness and excitement at being alive. It was easy to read, full of lovable brilliant characters, hilarious and moving and just so darn good!
Review to follow... Full Review now up on my blog: https://wheretheresinktherespaper.wor...
0,4 estrellasSimpática y chispeante. Lectura ideal si lo que quieres es entretenerte sin grandes dramas o conflictos. Simplemente disfrutar la historia de una cenicienta de mediana edad que vive un dia genial...Una historia que hubiera sido ideal llevarla al cine de los años 40 con rostros como Cary Grant o Robert Taylor y una blonde como Veronica Lake o Lana Turner.
0,4 estrellasSimpática y chispeante. Lectura ideal si lo que quieres es entretenerte sin grandes dramas o conflictos. Simplemente disfrutar la historia de una cenicienta de mediana edad que vive un dia genial...Una historia que hubiera sido ideal llevarla al cine de los años 40´ con rostros como Cary Grant o Robert Taylor y una blonde como Veronica Lake o Lana Turner.
The account of Miss Pettigrew’s exciting day is delightful for its naughtiness and melodrama, as well as the allure with which luxury is described.
On the other hand, I couldn’t help comparing Miss Pettigrew with The Post-Office Girl by Stefan Zweig, in which a younger woman in equally wretched poverty is taken on a luxurious holiday by relatives.
The difference is that Miss Pettigrew’s life is only shown for a day, whereas the reader watches Zweig’s girl going back to her moribund life at the post office to seethe at the unfairness of wealth inequality.
Like Miss Pettigrew, I enjoyed the fantasy of escape from mundane daily life.
Within hours, Miss Pettigrew is busy helping her new friend/employer to organise her love life, sampling all kinds of exciting food and drink and borrowing clothes and make-up.
Another problem is the anti-Semitism and prejudice against Italians - this is detailed in other GR reviews, so I won't go over it all again here, but it certainly sours the supposedly sweet, feelgood atmosphere!Overall, I don't quite understand why this flimsy Cinderella story gets so much love.
Maybe because the book itself is so beautifully produced, with lovely illustrations, or because it has been filmed?
I feel elated!
All I wanted from life was a book about people whom I liked, people with whom I could possibly identify with.
I wanted to look at a character and see their admirable qualities reflected in me.
This is that book.The movie is beautiful, sweet and romantic, ao I doubted the source material, especially given my recent experences.
But oh, I was wrong!
I should have trusted this author and this book.This story is by a woman, about women and for women.
It's empowering, and it lifted the weight from my soul.
In fact, it's a lot like the champagne that Miss Pettigrew tries for the first time during "her day".Personally, I'd recommend reading the book in its traditional form, rather than listening to the audio version, which is what I did.
But however you read it, the lovely story that is Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day is well worth your time.One note for the overly sensitive reader: the book was written in 1935 and reflects some of the social attitudes of that time period.
The lovely Miss LaFosse, however, needs help – not with children but with the three (3!) men in her life; and Miss Pettigrew is just the sort of woman to take charge of the situation.
I just love Miss Pettigrew, who is in turn amused, shocked, befuddled, brilliant, compassionate, composed, or flustered, but who manages always to overcome her own fears and objections and rise to the occasion.
The three men in Miss LaFosse’s tangled love life are straight out of central casting – a playboy show producer, a criminal nightclub owner, and a self-made, earnest young man.
