https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2111875.Ini_Dia_si_Paling_Badung
Blyton's books are never very long but this final* Naughtiest Girl book is so short it only just creeps out of the realm of the short story. As a result, there's not a huge amount of plot here. What there is is fine but it ended just as it was getting going.* Yes, I know there are several more books in the series but they were written by other authors after Blyton's death and really don't interest me.
sometime in my primary school days I read this book..and I dreamt & wished I'm in that school..
I listened to this as an audio book.
Here's the Naughtiest Girl was the last book in the series written by Enid Blyton.
Although this is a naughtiest girl book, the book is centred on the new boy Patrick who is Julian's cousin.
Patrick is a spiteful boy who thinks he is better then Julian.
He is jealous of Julian who is always top of the class and good at tennis.They both compete with each other to see who will be top of the class but Patrick cannot keep up.When the rest of the class send him to Coventry, he decides to runaway.
Jess, my 8-year old little girl, gives it 3 stars."This one is very short."
Ceritanya nanggung amat. Seri tertipis dari ketiga seri sebelumnya. Seolah dibuat hanya jadi cerita sisipan 😅.
Dalam buku ini diceritakan tentang konflik Elizabeth ALlen dan Julian (who turns out to be the best student in class) dengan Patrick, sepupu Julian.
Patrick selalu ingin mengalahkan Julian dan Elizabeth, serta iri jika mereka menempati posisi diatasnya.Berbeda dari 3 buku sebelumnya, buku ini tidak lagi menceritakan pelaksanaan Rapat besar.
Sesuatu yang bagus sih menurut saya, karena akan terkesan monoton jika pola yang diulang-ulang lagi.Kekurangan dari buku ini adalah bahwa konfliknya cukup superfisial dan tidak terlalu memainkan emosi seperti buku buku sebelumnya.
dan cerita dalam buku ini tidak diselesaikan hingga semester berakhir.
Cerita terhenti ketika Elizabeth, Julian, dan Patrick akhirnya menyelesaikan konflik diantara mereka.
inilah buku yang sebenarnya pertama kali saya baca :)) karena paling tipis jadi saya kira ini justru buku pertama seri si badung.
awalnya ketika membaca kok ya merasa ini agak loncat ceritanya, semacam tidak cocok sebagai buku pertama.
saya membaca ini di tengah-tengah persiapan maju presentasi kasuistik, menyelesaikan laporan dan juga mengerjakan beberapa pekerjaan lain.
ceritanya tentang?
peran Ellizabeth sebagai pengawas bagi teman-temannya, ia juga berusaha membuat anak baru nyaman bersekolah di sekolah asrama.
buat saya menyenangkan sekali membacanya, ringan namun sarat makna :) jenis buku yang tanpa ragu akan terus abadi dan saya pastikan anak-anak saya akan sempat membacanya.
Another fun story, about Elizabeth Allen and her naughty school days.
We have our fair share of Julian, Joan and Arabella, as well as the other characters from Enid's other books here.
It also introduces Patrick, Julian's cousin.
As always there are complaints and grumbles, meetings and delicious dinners.
Seriously never read Enid on an empty stomach, you start craving the weirdest things!I realized I haven't reviewed this and the following books in this series that was continued on by Anne Digby, despite them featuring in my favorite childhood books, so I thought why not end a holiday by binge reading?
Buku cerita anak yang sederhana. Menyenangkan mengingat kembali saat-saat disekolah. Persaingan untuk memperoleh nilai tertinggi, persahabatan dan pertengkaran. Elizabeth si anak badung yang menjadi pengawas harus berhadapan dengan Patrick si anak baru yang sombong dan anti anak perempuan. Patrick sendiri merupakan sepupu Julian sahabat Elizabeth. Elizabeth dan Julian sama-sama tidak menyukai Patrick. Konflik yang akhirnya membuat Patrick ingin melarikan diri dari sekolah yang dibencinya..
This was new to me - never read it before. It's a very short book compared to the other Naughtiest Girl books but I believe it was originally a story in an anthology or something. It was nice to have a bit more time with the characters as I liked these books a lot, and all the ones after this point aren't written by Enid Blyton. I'm going to read the next one just to see what it's like though.
This book is the last Enid Blyton wrote in the series it was then taken over by Anne Digby. This one is really short and centres around a new boy in Elizabeth's class who takes a dislike to her and her to him and she tries to keep her temper and tries to be good but finds that extremely difficult. Again this was extremely short and a quick read and again I didn't really enjoy it.
bahagia itu waktu bersua lagi dengan buku Enid ini di bazar buku. Walau sebenarnya buku yang saya ingin dapatkan itu yang seri buku saku lebah, tapi melihat ini pun hati saya berbuncah teringat masa kanak-kanak di mana saya suka membaca buku karya Enid ini, walau lupa apa-apa saja :D
selesai dalam waktu 1 jam saja :) bukunya super tipis, tapi punya banyak makna. jelas, saya akan simpan buku ini untuk bacaan anak saya kelak. agar mereka tahu kalau di buku yang sangat tipis ini, mereka bisa belajar banyak hal tentang pertemanan ;)
Seingat saya, saya tidak pernah membaca serial ini. Ternyata saya cukup menyukainya. Saya berniat mencari buku lainnya. Semoga saya menemukannya!
I found this book funny.I collect them all to read, and I've got to admit they are all good, but this one is my favourite out of the ones I've got.
I’m slightly horrified that I didn’t realise there was a short story that continued Elizabeth’s tale.I thought Enid Blyton had just written the three books and the rest were the new author. Imagine, my delight, in discovering I had fresh words from a beloved author in my favourite series! It’s a nice, little short story. Took me fifteen minutes to read. Nice to see Julian back and John Terry still tending his garden.
Final book by Blyton in this series (Some other person wrote another six books but they are not the original series) anyway little more than a short story with little plot and little else to say about it, almost superfluous, but hey if you are really missing the characters that much go nuts and enjoy what you can out of the last dregs of this series.
A very short book, which is the last official Enid I the series. Elizabeth comes to blows with her friend Julians cousin, new boy Patrick
Kind of fun, but I don't really like it. Enid Blyton's other books like St. Clare and Malory Towers are much better. I think three stars are enough for this book.
Rather a surprise! The last book was so long and involved! This one was very short and simple! Maybe a clever way to keep young readers interested after such an busy last book?
Even there she comes to be known as the naughtiest girl in school.
But slowly she blossoms into a wonderful girl (who can be bratty if she wants to be) with slight push from her teachers and a lot of help from her friends.The series led me to romanticize the life at a boarding school (which I later experienced for myself) and taught me a lot of life lessons.
There’s a lot of lessons to be learnt from these pages and I consider this series to be one of the must reads for every child (boy or girl) while growing up.
Too, short!!
good
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood. I loved the interesting take on justice and discipline within the school.
Its all childish..Nothing interesting in it...Boring!
More of a short story than a book, tells the tale of the arrival of Patrick at school.
i love this book
A short installment in the Naughtiest Girl series but nevertheless enjoyed by my girls and me.
