https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47700.Black_Orchid
The blooming origin of Black Orchid is here! This TPB edition collects “Black Orchid” #1-3.Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrator: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein SEEDS OF CREATION In the same (very much) sense that Alan Moore (close friend of Neil Gaiman) re-invented The Swamp Thing character when he took the comic book, in this miniseries, Neil Gaiman re-invented Black Orchid, while he had more latitude to work since Black Orchid, while existing since 1973, it was known very little abou

FLOWER POWER!! Keep your love beads in your patchouli-reeking denim vest, hippie, this is a super hero comic. Of sorts. Oh, and the pony tail combined with the receding hair line doesn’t do much for you either.Neil Gaiman, the guy who writes comics for real smart people (myself not included) tries to re-invent the titled D-list superhero, and bring her kicking and screaming into the “modern” world of comics.Since Neil Gaiman doesn’t write comics for shallow people like you, does this mean there
Because he wants to “study” her plant abilities.She runs into Batman……makes a visit to Arkham in order to get answers from Poison Ivy……and treks the bayou to say hi to Swamp Thing (who makes her heart sing)The eye-catching art combines a sort of photo realism with a huge dash of water coloring.Wow, Jeff, you continue to impress with your vast knowledge of art.Shaddup!Even though she’s pursued by evildoers, Black Orchid firmly believes in a non-violent, non-confrontational approach to crime fighting.
It starts with the death of the 'original' Black Orchid, a crime-fighter who had been undercover in one of Lex Luthor's companies, and was subsequently killed by his right hand man.Her death triggers the next Orchid's birth, and although she is initially confused, some of the original Black Orchid's memories start to surface.(view spoiler)[Turns out, she's a genetic hybrid of a woman that Philip Sylvain (a botanist) had loved since childhood.
I haven't read this since it was originally released in the early 90's.
Dave McKean provides some of the best artwork of his career.Gaiman touches on the original Black Orchid before moving onto his own creation.
She's a human / plant hybrid of the original and goes on a journey to find out what she really is.
Black Orchid's creator hung out with Poison Ivy, the Floronic Man, and Swamp Thing back in college and she goes in search of them for answers.
Ethereal and poetic as anything else Gaiman has done with beautiful, subtle artwork.
And Dave McKean, who's the illustrator, has done a marvellous job with several of Gaiman's novels so when I saw the cover of Black Orchid I knew I had to have it.I don't know many details about DC's superheroes but I know Batman and Arkham and Poison Ivy so I was doing fine with the cameos in this comic.
Sort of (I don't want to give away too much).Apart from that, and this impressed me a lot, "mundane" topics such as domestic violence were also addressed and incorporated seamlessly into a superhero story.The beginning was very weird and confusing but I realized soon that that was on purpose since it's exactly how the Black Orchid felt herself.
An important example of the re-creation and reimagining of comics by British authors during the mid eighties, Black Orchid combines Gaiman's mythology with McKean's powerful artistic visions in the series which made their careers.Like Moore's 'Swamp Thing' or Morrison's 'Animal Man', Gaiman was given the opportunity to place his stamp on a pre-existing hero; and like the others, by betraying cliche and embracing a suitably mystic sense of realism, succeeds admirably.
But this book is beautiful.The art is stunning and makes you feel as though you're in a dream.
Neil Gaiman shows off his talent for original and profound story telling, and Dave McKean brings it to life with the most insanely beautiful art.
There are also several cameo appearances by other well known and loved superheroes and villains, something I was quite surprised by (but that's probably because I'm so new to this whole graphic novel thing).
Still, it was a nice surprise, and it did nothing but add to an already fantastic story.It is bittersweet and beautiful, but I'm glad I found this book.
Hands down the most beautiful comic/graphic book I have ever read. The artwork is stunning, and the story is complimentary to it. There are a few familiar characters (Poison Ivy, Swamp Thing, Lex Luthor, Batman etc) but it's is Black Orchid who makes it really worth reading. Though to be honest, the art is so gorgeous I'd probably read it even if the story was crap. Luckily, the story and writing is equal to its illustrations. I'm pretty sure I'm just repeating myself but there isn't really a lot more to say. Read it.
I was prepared not to like this, as I happened to see a reviewer I immensely respect, Sam Quixote, give it two stars (though I also know he dislikes Gaiman, and Gaiman's mentor Alan Moore, though does seem to like another superstar compadre of sorts, Grant Morrison).
This may not be a major story, for true DC fans, but when you have Gaiman as storyteller, and Dave McKean as artist, amazing things can happen, and it is a pretty beautiful thing to behold, in my opinion.
Neil Gaiman'ın yazdığı, Dave McKean'in çizdiği, Ezgi Keskinsoy'un dilimize kazandırdığı, İthaki Yayınları tarafından basılan "Siyah Orkide" bakış açısı, çizimleri, bir taraftan kendine diğer yandan bilindik başka kahramanların, şeytanların dünyasına dokunan bir evrene ve kurguya sahip. Başladıktan, kurguya alıştıktan sonra elinizden bırakamıyorsunuz. İthaki Yayınları'nı bir kez daha gerek seçtiği eserler gerekse de baskı ve çevirideki ilgi, özen, başarıları için kutlarım.
It's hard for me to review comic books and graphic novels because I don't know all the lingo even though I've been reading both on and off for years (Thor comics specifically since at least by my preteen years).
And it is bad-ass.In the 80s, Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean reimagined the Black Orchid character from DC Comics of the 70s.
I don't know all the different connections and relationships the Black Orchid had, but some of the connections I could recognize in this graphic novel made me smile in that super dorky way that happens when anyone feels like they're a part of something cool.
Good stuff in these pages.
3.5Değişik bir kurgu, sanatsal çizimler. Çok hayran kalmasam da okuduğuma pişman değilim.
Esta es mi segunda historia que leo de Neil Gaiman y me encontré a Una heroína muy diferente y original, situaciones sombrías muy al estilo de este autor y una critica hacia la violencia, muy bien argumentada.
Para descubrir el mundo DC desde la perspectiva oscura y original de Neil Gaiman.
2. Como sabemos, en esta historia vamos a ver mujeres plantas con poderes muy originales.
4. El tema de la violencia esta muy bien argumentado desde el principio hasta el final.
I am trying to appreciate graphic novels, but I don't think my visual artistic intelligence works well in combination with my literary intelligence.
For one thing, my visual artistic intelligence is severely limited.I liked the concept of the Black Orchid, like Poison Ivy, one of the familiar DC Comics characters that appeared (as did Batman, Harvey Dent, the Mad Hatter, etc.).
However, I think the story was on a deeper level (or trying to be), that I could not appreciate.

Malo sam razočaran ovom grafičkom novelom. Očigledno su moja očekivanja bila prevelika - Gaiman, likovi,... A na kraju se svelo na osrednju priču koja teče veoma sporo... I sama Orhideja deluje kao jednodimenzionalna paćenica koja ni sama ne zna šta hoće. Ono što je dobro jesu epizodne uloge Betmena, Džokera,... a celu stvar iz mulja vadi odlična grafika.Kada sve sumiram sve se svodi na neku osrednju trojčicu...
Ona počinje stereotipno, kao superheroj koji se bori protiv zla, i onda BUM, biva ubijena bez ikakve nade za spasenjem, ovoga puta, u suprotnosti sa svim stereotipima.
Zatim se ponovo rađa u "cvetnoj bašti" svog prijatelja iz detinjstva, naučnika koji je i odgovoran za njeno postojanje u tom obliku, bez sećanja na ono što je bilo, samo sa emocijama koje ne može da protumači.
Još jedna od stvari koje mi se jako dopadaju u stripu je način na koji su različite scene povezane tekstom, nova scena se nadovezuje na tekst iz prethodne i to je toliko prirodno da se čini kao da nikako drugačije ne bi imalo smisla.
Crna Orhideja se prvi put pojavila u univerzumu DC-ijevih superheroja 1973.
godine, ali je kultni status obezbedila tek 15 godina kasnije, kada su scenarista Nil Gejman i crtač Dejv Mekin uradili trodelni strip koji je nosio njeno ime.
Crna Orhideja je, kako u uvodniku tačno primećuje Mikel Gilmor, strip koji je pomerio granice superherojskog žanra.
Novine su brojne.
Iako u Crnoj Orhideji gostuje nekoliko poznatih junaka (Betmen, Otrovna Ajvi, Čudovište iz močvare), strip deluje sveže i drugačije.
Crtač Dejv Mekin, gost ovogodišnjeg BeoKona, vrhunski je umetnik i njegov prepoznatljiv, očaravajući stil Crnu Orhideju čini nezaboravnim vizuelnim iskustvom.
Bullet Review:This was a really really crazy read. Gorgeous art and some really pretty fairytale-ish writing, but it ended up being something completely different than I expected. I didn't realize that Black Orchid was a DC superhero, nor did I expect so many DC superheroes and villains to appear. I mostly checked it out because of Neil Gaiman. Neil Gaiman did a good job, but the writing at times was so esoteric and elusive, that I got lost trying to figure it out.But the drawings were purty!
Gaiman is very hit or miss for me. This one was a miss.There's just too much of a leap when it comes to the plot - there's not enough explained. I end up having so many questions that I just...don't care about finding the answers. One minute they're in the city, the next in the rainforest. Despite all the hopping, this still feels like a slow story. Not one I'll read again.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
"If anyone else had destroyed a project I could've profitted from like this, they'd currently be trembling under an assumed name in some obscure third-world nation! You...you wake me out of bed to examine your handiwork...and then you ask me for a job!" - Lex LuthorBrilliantly crafted revival of a forgotten heroine...Black Orchid's chilling walk through Arkham Asylum alone makes this worth reading!
Do NOT read the introduction before the story, it contains spoilers! Stupid introduction writers, why do they keep doing that?
Moje recenze - http://sheisbookaholic.blogspot.cz/20...
Já tinha ouvido falar desta história antes, num canal do booktube brasileiro, e tinha-me despertado alguma curiosidade. Fiquei muito, muito contente quando a editora mo enviou. Obrigada mais uma vez pela vossa disponibilidade fantástica! Este é daqueles livros que tem tudo para dar certo. Adoro o autor, o Neil Gaiman, a arte é absolutamente maravilhosa (nem há palavras para dizer quão linda é) e a história fala-nos de uma super-heroina. Surpresa maior ainda quando a uma dada altura aparece uma p
Adoro o autor, o Neil Gaiman, a arte é absolutamente maravilhosa (nem há palavras para dizer quão linda é) e a história fala-nos de uma super-heroina.
Confesso que não estou tão familiarizada com os super-heróis da DC Comics como com os da Marvel, mas o Batman é, sem dúvidas, um dos meus favoritos.
Talvez por todos estes aspetos positivos, esperava mais da história.
Não que não tenha gostado, porque gostei bastante, mas não foi tão bom como esperava.
No entanto, no geral, foi uma experiência positiva e gostei muito da parte mais ambientalista da história.
This is a very different kind of story. Interesting. Neil never disappoints.
Beautiful in tone and visuals.World: The art is fantastic, it's a bit dark but it is the style of the time and it does fit this book very well.
The story starts off as a basic origin and revenge tale but the point of view of Orchid and the way she sees the world makes this story special and different.
As I said above the ties to the DCU are great and the story as it plays out in the end is quite interesting and a sense of melancholy and hope that mingle and swirl together is delicious and magical.
It's a decent story, and his writing here is clearly still miles above most comic scripting of the time, but it often feels like he's trying too hard to fit into the British New Wave of comics writers.For Gaiman fans, and certainly for McKean fans, this is a decent, easily readable, easily understood little piece of work.
I'm a huge Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean fan so it's a little surprising it took me this long to get around to reading this. I had never heard of Black Orchid before picking it up but it's a dreamy, mythic story that's perfectly suited to their talents. Also: the artwork is just jaw-droppingly gorgeous. If you haven't read it yet, the art alone would make it worth picking up. Full review here: http://aeither.net/?p=3012
An okay read...I'm glad it kinda connected all of the other plant people in the DCU. Never woulda figured that.
The sisters are gone. Phil is dead.I love it! Who knew Lex Luthor always had someone doing his bidding?!
