https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854764.Thimble_Summer
The descriptions of Garnet going to the city and looking in shop windows were an interesting snapshot of the 1930s.This was almost 5 stars, the story did feel unconnected at times, Eric joins the family in one chapter but is not really mentioned again, neither is an old lady who tells the tale of the coral bracelet.
We were also waiting for the thimble to have some importance to the story, but this was still a very interesting and enjoyable read and both left us wanting to time travel back to a hot dusty summer on a farm in Wisconsin.We love the blue and orange cover of our 1960s edition and there are many beautiful, very 1930s line drawings inside that we were very impressed to discover were by the author.
Charming, and great for summer. I love the writing style.
Why didn't I know about Elizabeth Enright when I was growing up? I read everything by Maud Hart Lovelace and Lois Lenski, but she passed me by. Enright's books are just the type that I adored when I was 9 or 10 years old--a bit old-fashioned, but smart, with characters who were adventurous and curious and made messes and hung out with the coolest grownups.
Elizabeth Enright is one of my favorite authors in all the world. This book exemplifies how she could paint a picture of a child's world with just the right details to make it amazingly clear. Her insight into what makes life interesting to a young mind leads to sentences with startling evocative perfection.Reading this book makes me feel like a young girl growing up on a Wisconsin farm in the 1930's. I adore this book and cannot recommend it strongly enough to absolutely everyone.
A very pleasant book about a girl growing up in in Wisconsin, with episodes of farming life, the county fair, and hitchhikes to town. I plan to read it to my son next.
-- to build a new barn), that brief mention of the dust bowl is really the only hint in this book that life in the 1930s was a struggle for great numbers of people.
Ironically, I bet that to a lot of people who were reading the book in 1938 when it was first published (for example, children in cities whose parents struggled to find work) such a life was just as refreshingly different from their own experience as it is from ours.
Garnet (Enright comes up with the weirdest names) finds a silver thimble by the lake, and she's sure it's magic when the summer proves to be so interesting to her.
Her prized runt (this part is thought by some to be a ripp-off of Charlotte's Web) wins a blue ribbon at the fair, and there was the adoption of a boy named Eric, and Garnet and her best friend Cintronella even get locked in the library!Another no-plotter by Enright, but it is still entertaining to read and is another classic.
But it could have just as easily been a series of short stories, you know?For instance, the second chapter is a story where Garnet (the main character) and her friend are listening to her friend's grandmother tell a story about when she was young.
But no, neither the bracelet nor the grandmother is ever mentioned again.In one chapter she sneaks away and travels many towns away without telling anyone.
But in the next chapter, everyone has their gifts and no one mentions her leaving, and she apparently gets into no trouble.And I was hoping some romance between her, or her friend, and the boy who randomly shows up that summer.
Oh how I enjoyed this book as a kid that I could never get rid of my copy. I love Garnet, Citrinella, Mr. Freebody, and Erik so much! This is a book I'm hoping my children will read in the future.
Just ok. I listened to the audiobook. The narration was very good, but the storyline did not hold my attention very much.
This is typical of the type of story I most enjoyed when I was in the range of 8 to 11 years old.
The rest of the story is familiar, but is that because I've read many books that are similar to this one or because I remember this particular story?Garnet, ten years old, lives on a farm in rural Wisconsin during the 1930s, but her family doesn't seem to be affected much by the depression or the dustbowl drama.
After I read The Cat Who Went To Heaven (1931 Newbery winner) I was a little gun-shy about the 1930s winners.
The character Mrs. Eberhardt really reminds me of my Grandma Corfield (know what I mean, Mandy?) Here are some descriptions I liked:"It was too hot to eat.
he could probably eat the shingles off a house if there was nothing else handy, Garnet decided.""The watery air was cold against her face and as she looked the many-branched lightning stood for an instant on the horizon like a tree on fire."Mrs. Eberhardt: "My we had awful winters then.
As I slowly muddle my way through the Newbery award winners (starting with the 1920s and working my way to present day), I find that there are a few gems scattered throughout that seem to align with my reading tastes, and this is definitely one of them.I'm generally game for the farm setting, whether it be something bleak like Tess of the D'Urbervilles or something more lighthearted and positive like Thimble Summer.
Plus, with a projected high of only 16 degrees today, I think I've needed a little Wisconsin summer in my life lately.I adored Garnet as a narrator, although I found myself constantly worrying for her (OMG the hitchhiking that could NEVER occur these days without something horrible happening).
Thimble Summer by Elizabeth Enright is a good book written in the 1930s.
The main character finds a silver thimble which is magic.
The main character’s name is Garnet, who is a tomboy.
Then Garnet went out and found the silver thimble.
It rained as soon she got home.
The next evening after it rained, in the middle of the night a boy appeared and was adopted by Garnet’s family.
The next day she and her friend got stuck in the library all night.
After a couple of weeks she went to the fair with her friend and her family.
This story of a farm girl's summer adventures, set in 1930s Wisconsin, really captured my heart. Elizabeth Enright clearly remembered what it was like to be a child and evoked that state beautifully. I liked the characters, the seeming simplicity with which the story unfolded, and especially liked the descriptive writing ("The barn was huge and old; it lurched to one side like a bus going around a corner."). Enright won the 1939 Newbery for this one. I look forward to reading other books by this author.
What a fun book to read aloud! I love Elizabeth Enright's style. Her descriptions are beautiful and the dialogue is easy to read. Vocabulary words pop up just often enough to encourage discussion and dictionary searches. This was a great book for identifying setting and its effect on the story.
This was a great little book.
It's the story of Garnet, a nine year old, who lives on a farm with her family.
Then Garnet finds a beautiful silver thimble.
And Garnet feels like her thimble is magical.It's just a nice book, full of the adventures of a girl and her family.
They befriend and take in an orphan boy named Eric and Garnet raises a pig named Timmy.
It's not a particularly deep book but you enjoy Garnet who learns some life lessons and grows.It's another book from the Newberry Award winner list and one that I was glad to read.
Cute and a bit old-fashioned. Some of the Native American references were dated, but it wasn't as bad as some. Actually enjoyable to read in a sedate sort of way.It moves along nicely after the first couple chapters. Just simple farm adventures, no over-moralizing and nothing upsetting. Pretty much safe for anyone to read but not the liveliest book.
Lovely story of a summer that proved anything could happen if you believed it could.
A delightful story of a 1930s farming family. Read aloud to my girls, 7 and 4. They adored it, and so did I.
I ABSOLUTELY THINK THIS BOOK WAS H O R I B B L E !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It was super-duper- boring. The whole book was HAPPY STUFF. There has to be at least SOME bad stuff, right? If there is no bad stuff, there is no challenge so this whole book was absolutely BORING.
But nothing really tells the reader "this is when and where the story takes place," which is odd for a children's book.
I find it hard to believe that a farmer's daughter would not be expected to help out at threshing time, particularly one of Garnet's age.
They had time to play around but were definitely kept busy by their mothers--particularly as Garnet's mother has no hired girl to help out, and has a small child to look after as well as doing the housework and looking after the small stock (hens, piglets etc).
A story of a little girl named Garnet and her family.
It tells simple everyday life in farm house and her little adventures.
The book gives you the charming nostalgic feeling of good old days when everything was simple, not so complicated as now.I'd like to give a bonus point for the book's illustration too.
Always love illustrated chapter book.
It really adds charm to story.
I have just learned that Elizabeth Enright was an illustrator and her simple line-drawings really match the story.
Just love it :)
Very pleasant, but not extraordinary.
Something like Understood Betsy has a lot more going for it.
I very much enjoyed Enright's illustrations, with such bold colors.
Just unrealistic to imagine her standing calmly with such a beast.It's interesting to see how Enright's writing developed from Kintu to this to the Melendys to Gone-Away and how she frequently returns to similar settings and themes.I didn't like that loose ends weren't tied up nicely.
The gifts purchased on Garnet's excursion to New Conniston weren't presented, and we didn't hear how she told her family about that trip.

I love books that take me back to the good old days when families, neighbors and communities all helped each other.
Work is a daily expectation and children take part as a natural part of their lives.
I liked the character of Garnet - she's feisty and independent, loves her family (most of the time) and finds magic in a simple silver thimble.
Some of this story is based on the remembrances of the author's own life growing up in Wisconsin.
Next to the Little House books, this story also gives another taste of what life was like in the past.
A good book for children to read.
Newbery Medal Winner--1939Thimble Summer rounds out the 1930's Newbery winners, and we get another story about a girl rebelling against what is expected of her gender (I love that these books were not only available to girls at the time, but were also seen as quality literature). Like a lot of the early Newbery winners, this one had some fun moments--I'm particularly fond of Garnet's hitchhiking adventure--in what is essentially just a description of things happening over time (in this case, one summer). There's no real story or conflict, but still a fairly enjoyable read.
Garnet lives on a farm.
One summer she finds a thimble in their swimming hole and she is certain it is lucky.
She certainly seems to have some lucky (and a few unlucky) things happen to her throughout the summer.
She has a number of adventures such as getting locked in the library and running away from home.
Much like The Saturdays, the story is very episodic in nature.
Each chapter could nearly stand alone.
I loved Mr. Freebody...he was a kind man who helped watch over and protect Garnet, chastising her when she needed it and rescuing her from herself.
Another classic by Elizabeth Enright.
I love this author even though I am an old grandma!
I bought this book for my granddaugher's birthday, but had to re-read it before giving it to her.
I love the simplicity of childhood in Mrs. Enright's books.
Garnet's many adventures make for good reading.
She got locked in a library after closing hours, she ran away from home, she hitchhiked, she got stuck on the top of a ferris wheel!
This is good reading about a little girl who lived at a time when kids could be kids and actually go out and play without being fearful for their lives.
Kate gave me this book from the Kearney Library mostly because the main character's name is Garnet, and Garnet currently happens to be my favorite girl name. I've been reading Thimble Summer on the bus the last week, and it has been wonderful. Enright's descriptions of rural Wisconsin are fantastic. They made me want to go out and pet a pig and take a trip to a county fair. I especially enjoyed Garnet's hitchhiking adventure and the addition of Eric to the Linden family. The drawings were excellent as well.
