https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119253.Me_and_My_Little_Brain
A clever little chapter book, Me and My Little Brain tells the story of J.D. who, now that his big brother Tom (otherwise known as the Great Brain) is away attending boarding school, has high hopes for becoming the newest neighborhood "wheeler-dealer".
But, in his attempt to live up to his big brother's legacy as a swindler, J.D. begins to realize the importance of being his own person and finding what it is that he is good at.This book was a wonderful, light read.
Definitely a great book to share with your kids!
Just finished reading #2 in The Great Brain series.
This one takes off right after John Fitzgerald's two brothers leave for boarding school in late 19th century Salt Lake City.
John becomes the only child at home and immediately tries to take over the town Great Brain mantle of his brother Tom. He has rather disastrous results, of course.Again, Fitzgerald really cannot do any wrong with his writing in this series.
Even as a 43-year-old, I'm impressed by the stark perfection of his writing.
The look and characters he created dovetail perfectly with Fitzgerald's voice.
Goodness children's books used to be grim.
A little darker than the first two but still so good. Full review here: http://www.sunlitpages.com/2017/05/th...

This gets merely a "like" because a) the Great Brain himself does not appear and so it's not a great jumping on point for new readers and b) the last 3-4 chapters are all one extended story -- nothing wrong with that but tough for little brains to keep track of.
That said, it's the first one in my re-reading that made me have to stop because I was crying (page 135).
As part of a trilogy, that point hits a home run.In this third entry of the series, Tom is away at boarding school and John D.
unexpectedly becomes an older brother when his family adopts an orphaned kid named Frankie Pennyworth.
You could hear a pin drop when we read this book aloud. We love the Great Brain series!
My ten, eight, and seven-year olds loved this.
2 1/2, quite the adventure story. The reason I'm rating it low is because this book was in the JR chapter books and so I read it out loud to my girls but it sure talked a lot about outlaws and a 4 year old hostage and killing and said things like "slash your throat". Those are things made of nightmares for my already nervous 8 year old.
My 5th grade teacher, Mrs. Embley, read this to our class in 5th grade. I fell in love with the characters and ended up reading (and rereading a gazillion times) the entire series. I love love love this book. It’s my favorite out of the bunch. I still think about it years later. Love it!
This book is a great third book in the Fitzgerald series. This is probably one of my top favorite books, mainly because of the adventures John has without the Great Brain. It also introduces a great character named Frankie. This book is a must-read for the Fitzgerald series.
A childhood favorite series.Rereading this to my son. I feel the lack of The Great Brain in this one, and found it mildly less enjoyable to read, less lighthearted. We are looking forward to the next book in the series.
This is a great book. If you haven't read it yet you definitely should. It is also a really short read.
i liked it
Such a fun book to read with kids
Had so much fun reading this book with Holland and Anna! They love these sweet and funny stories!
An amazing book about a brother who tries to follow in his siblings swindling footsteps but just can't get it to work.
3 3/4 stars
It was great
My 7 year old loves this series!
I love this book!
And after reading it, I discovered a great website with more information about the author and books: http://findingfitzgerald.com/ The bio there makes it sound like Fitzgerald fell into a successful writing career immediately after writing "Papa Married a Mormon," but on historytogo.utah.gov there's this great quote about his first effort to write full time (after his first two books were published): "I quit my job and went to a mountain cabin to make my living writing.
Fortunately for J.D. Fitzgerald (and us), his wife bought him another typewriter and several years later he wrote the first Great Brain book.
Having read these aloud now myself for homeschool, I was surprised by the mature themes that I didn't remember.
Therefore, the stories of this book, and #4 "The Great Brain at the Academy" actually run concurrently.Chapters 1 & 2 details John's struggles to imitate his brother's cleverness.Things take a more serious turn in Chapter 3 when a family is killed in a landslide and the sole survivor, a four year old named Frankie, arrives at the Fitzgerald household.
However, the adults are insensitive to John's struggles and beg for his patience due to the immense strain that Frankie is under, having lost his entire family in a tragic accident.
The rest of the book deals with J.D. figuring out who he is and coming to terms with the fact that he only has a “little” brain.The plot mainly revolves around Frankie, a young boy who the Fitzgeralds ultimately adopt, and his relationship with J.D. Then, of course, there’s a part at the end where J.D. really gets to show off all his “little brain” can do—and also give himself confidence in his own abilities, and make him realize that he can be his own person and that he doesn’t revolve around Tom and Tom’s escapades.It’s a very refreshing entry in the Great Brain series, especially if you find Tom’s cons in the first two books tiring or annoying.
We get to see some nice life lessons - JD isn't the con artist his big brother is and he learns to "be himself".
We see a new, important, character come into the fold, Frankie, the orphan and we get a three chapter thriller of the time a murderer came to town.
That is also an anomaly, since all the other books typically have one chapter stories.
As with the other books, while the chapters are stories unto themselves (making for nice bedtime reading to my daughters) there is a larger arc to the book.
No cons like with the Great Brain, but that's okay, it was a nice change of pace.
John was swindled out of his basketball and backboard just because he said Tom wasn't a Christian.
Tom said he would tell on John for saying that he wasn't a Christian if he didn't get the ball and backboard.
Frankie's parents died in an accident and he was found on a road and taken to John's mother so she could take care of him until the sheriff found some relatives.
Frankie was kicking and scratching everyone and was even trying to kill John because his parents died and he was traumatized.
Tinggallah J.D. yang merasa yakin bahwa dia sudah cukup mendapatkan ilmu dari Tom dan berniat untuk mempraktekkannya.
J.D. pun mengakui, jika Tom adalah great brain, maka dia hanyalah little brain T_T.Dan saat itulah datang anggota keluarga baru di keluarga Fitzgerald.
Tetapi akhirnya Frankie yang diadopsi oleh kedua orang tuanya menjadi adik yang sangat dia sayangi.
Tapi tidak setelah mereka tahu, si penjahat ternyata sembunyi di loteng barn keluarga Fitzgerald dengan Frankie sebagai sanderanya T_T.
Asli deg-degan, ini sih bukan kayak buku buat anak-anak >_<.Untunglah, J.D. dengan little brain-nya dan juga keberaniannya berhasil menyelamatkan adik angkat kesayangannya dan si bandit berhasil dimasukkan penjara lagi untuk selanjutnya dihukum gantung pastinya.
Another nice entry in the Great Brain series.
By this point, the plots are all familiar, and there is not as much period color as there are in the first 2 books, but it is still quite enjoyable to read.
The chapter where the Fitzgeralds take in an orphan boy who is traumatized and is given carte blanche to whale on poor JD is hilarious.
The chapters where JD singlehandedly resolves a hostage crisis with a rope and pitchfork was also good fun.
My 8 year old is hooked and wants to read the remaining 5 books in the series.
Reading the Great Brain is in no way an endorsement of Mitt Romney.
While his mischievous brother Tom is away at boarding school in Salt Lake City, John D.
decides to take Tom's place as the town's youngest con man.
But he soon finds out that he doesn't quite have Tom's knack for planning out swindles.
He also ends up entangled in some misadventures involving a very violent toddler and some escaped criminals.
But ultimately, John D.
The storyline is creative and sometimes sweet, yet the author doesn't shy away from the grittier aspects of life out west in the 19th century.
It just isn't the same without Tom around though...
A childhood favorite and I'm SO excited to have kids old enough to share it with.
I always thought it was St. George due to the described proximity to Cedar City.
Knowing that I can suddenly fill in holes in the plot and descriptions that I never could before when I was thinking of St. George.
We're on to book 3 as soon as I can track it down!This book, second in the series, has more dangerous adventure but the narrator, John Dennis, is slowly figuring out how the Great Brain thinks and figures he can fill some big shoes by the end of the book.
