https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/869907.After_the_First_Death
Mark Haddon, author of The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night Time, said in an interview with Horn Book Magazine, “Most teenage fiction has an invisible ring of safety built into it.
The speaker had been talking about balancing surprise and believability in a plot, and he pointed out that an unhappy ending that’s the believable consequence of the events of the story respects the reader far more than an unbelievable, deus ex machina happy ending.A post-reading writing assignment for After the First Death could ask students to reflect on the book’s ending as believable and to consider that ending in the context of the debate over young adult fiction.
I'm a champion for bleak literature, but I still don't know how to respond to this book.
Telling the story of a bus of children taken hostage by terrorists, this book is packed with emotion, but I didn't even know what emotions I was feeling or how to respond to them.
I don't even know how to recommend this book.
It's a good book: brilliant writing, real characters, real emotion.
But I don't even know how to define the emotion in this book.
I'd recommend this book because it's good literature, truly good literature, but I take no responsibility for how you'll feel or respond.
Both books present them in different ways - Heroes approaches them through the eyes of Francis Cassavant, an 18 year old soldier who has just returned home from World War 2, while After the First Death focuses on a group of terrorists who hijack a bus full of children heading for a summer camp and take them hostage.Similarly to Cormier's earlier work, The Chocolate War features several points of view: it begins with a narration from Ben Marchand, a teenager who was drawn into the hostage situation as a third party, and for whom the experience has changed everything, most notably the relationship with his father.
It was Artkin who alerted the authorities of something big going down involving a bus full of kids taken hostage, and now SWAT teams, special units, military officers and high-ranking generals are in on the crisis, pacing where solid land holds the promise of safety for all those children vulnerable to the blast of a madman's firearms should the mood strike him.
Kate Forrester's most interesting thoughts in her hours of sitting and staring, unable to do anything but pat a few downy heads and stroke a tearstained cheek or two when the kids' distress grows especially intense, are about her burgeoning realization that the moments of deepest despair in dreading the death that likely awaits her come right before she is buoyed by unexpected surges of hope.
In the other books I've read by Cormier (The Chocolate War, Beyond the Chocolate War, and Heroes), the girl characters are often flat.
But then I realized that I probably did not like Kate because her character was part of themes 1 and 2 (identity crisis and perception).
Towards the middle/end of the book I began to like Kate more and it was a good time.
It's only getting four stars because it kind of dragged in the middle, Kate was semi-badly characterized, and nothing can ever top Cormier's The Chocolate War and Beyond the Chocolate War.
This is not an adventure story, like one might expect of a YA novel.
There is great tension but little action as most of the the book deals with the thoughts and emotions of three teens' caught up in a hostage-taking incident -- they are inexperienced, ideological and lacking in forethought, yet expected to function as adults by the adults who are in control.
Overall, one of the most powerful YA books I've read this year, as relevent today as when it was written in 1979.
I don't usually give books a 5 star rating. Only for the greatest books, really. This was great. I'm kinda speechless after it. It makes most contemporary YA seem thin and empty by comparison. This is something else.

Cormier was a genius. His writing is absolutely outstanding and never ceases to amaze me. His books are - in many ways - terrifying and so unflinching in their approach to their topics. This novel deals with terrorists who hijack a school bus.It's been many years since I first read this novel and it still haunts me. Absolutely incredible.
Kate wasn't meant to be the bus driver that day, she was just filling in for her uncle.
Ben wasn't meant to be there either.
There are sections in first person, which seem to be Ben's diary, alluding to past events of the bus hijacking on the bridge.
Kate is focused on survival, even though she is the most likely to die.
There has been unrest in the Middle East for a long time, and I knew that these hijackers were not ISIS but were likely instead Israeli or Palestinian, and yet it felt so current.
My blood pressure skyrocketed; I felt like I was in one of my all-too-vivid nightmares - and yet, I kept reading.
The ending left me reeling, caught in that no-man's-land between hating and loving, unsure how to feel or what to make of the book.
Violence: All things considered, this was not the goriest book I have read recently.
While this isn't really about sex, it does relate to the body so I guess I'll put it here - my professor said a student was offended by the fact that a teenage girl wet herself multiple times throughout the book.
As I was reading it, I found the narrative of the general's son to be the most interesting.
The character development was very interesting, especially when considering the time in which the novel was written (1979).
The typical gender roles were not necessarily what I expected them to be, but I also saw the ideals of the time reflected in that aspect of the story.This was a truly well-written book, and it will be shocking and emotional in many areas.
Now I know why Robert Cormier is cherished in the eyes of Young Adult Literature.
The book tells the incredible story of terrorists hijacking a bus of five and six year old children, as well as a young woman who is the bus's driver.
The book is told through the eyes of Miro, one of the hijackers, Kate, the bus driver, and Ben, the son of a general.
There is violence, including the death of two children, and also many swearing scenes.
Scale 1-5Violence: 4 (child death, guns, explosions, and some minor torturing)Sex:3 (sexual fantasy)Language:3.5 (there are cuss words; due to the nature of the book, expected)Drugs:2 (children are drugged with unknown drug)Alcohol:0 (none)

In a word, amazing. Perhaps even more relevant today than when it was originally written. There's not much I can say about this one - the book speaks for itself.
Κάτι μου λέει πως το σενάριο αυτό σάς προκαλεί ένα σφίξιμο στο στομάχι, αλλά την ίδια στιγμή δεν σας φαντάζει καθόλου παράξενο, παράταιρο, ξένο ως προς αυτά που προβάλλει η σύγχρονη, βουτηγμένη στην ακραία βία, εποχή που ζούμε.
Άλλωστε, ο ίδιος ο τίτλος του βιβλίου μαρτυρά, λίγο πολύ, τι πρόκειται να συμβεί, απλά δεν μπορείς να γνωρίζεις ποιος και με ποια σειρά θα είναι το επόμενο θύμα.Αυτό με κάνει να σκέφτομαι πως ένας έφηβος ίσως να μισήσει, με μια πρώτη ανάγνωση, ένα βιβλίο σαν κι αυτό, επειδή όταν είμαστε νέοι έχουμε μέσα μας την πίστη πως όλα θα πάνε καλά και πως κανείς και τίποτα δεν μπορεί ν' αγγίξει ένα παιδί.
Oh wow.
Ok. I just finished this book at 11:08 pm and I'm sad.
I'm like really sad but like I'm not crying.
It's a weird feeling.
Tbh, I didn't really like this book in the beginning because it was quite boring.
But after a while, it became a thriller.
Anyways, this was a nice short book (233 pages) and I quite enjoyed it.
moments and stuff like that and the book uses lots of metaphors and similes.
If you're looking for a book that's short and has some action to it, I really would recommend this book for you to read.
I think this book was very well written, although it could be slow at times. It was also kind of predictable, but I really like Robert Cormier and he is a great author, his books just start a bit slow and can be confusing at times. The plot itself is suspenseful, and the characters are well developed, you really feel for the people in the book.
Three teenagers caught at the center of a terrorist hostage situation involving a bus-load of children on their way to a camp.
All three of these teenagers share the fact that they are joined by death, Kate knowing that from the moment they allowed her to see their faces she would never have been allowed to live, Miro through the knowledge that it was his role to murder the bus driver and Ben, through his role in the protection of the children who unwillingly walked into the situation.
The government, of course, is unwilling to concede, especially in this latter point, so that the military decides to take the bus by force.Cormier’s novel is more than just a book about the roots and motives of terrorism, although the figure of Miro can teach us something about how young people are recruited for terror organizations in poorer countries.
Equally eager to please his father figure as Ben is, Miro is yearning to earn his full acceptance into the circle of terrorists by killing Kate, although he also feels fascinated by her.Both the general and his terrorist adversary, Cormier seems to say, manipulate the younger generation for their own aims, deftly using emotional bribery to achieve this aim, and justifying their cause by tagging the label of patriotism to their actions.
It was a powerful read, but it was ultimately too disturbing for me to finish.In the novel, terrorists from an unnamed country hijack a school bus in order to further the liberation of their homeland.
He describes characters very realistically, making me care about them (especially the little children and the 18-year-old, Katie, who are taken hostage by terrorists in the novel).
The book was actually very gripping and character-driven: there is relatively little action in the novel, in fact, but you're kept moving along by its excellent writing.
In fact, if my future self were to have told me that I'd read a book about hijackings and terrorists and suicide and etc...ya I don't know what I would have said.
I feel so safe in realistic fiction books that don't focus on the reality that is our world, so to read a really higher thinking novel like this is an astonishment.
If it weren't for the ending, I'd have most likely rated this book 2 stars, and I probably would not have even rated it at all if it wasn't for Robert Cormier's gripping approach.
Will I read other Robert Cormier books?
The language also paints a vivid picture of the setting and situation, making the reader believe they are there in the bus with Kate, that they are standing next to Ben, and that they are exploring a new perspectives with Miro.Perhaps most importantly, this books makes readers think about themselves and about their actions in their world.
Because she wet her pants, the bus driver, a sixteen-year-old girl named Kate who is substituting on the day of the terrorist attack, removes her jeans in order to take off her stockings.
Other content similar to this is also present.Violence: The terrorists hijack the bus, drug the children, and make several threats.
Kate is the bus driver and the kids are her responsibility.
Kate was so scared she keeps peeing her pants over and over and over again.
I really liked this book because there was nonstop action!
it keeps my attention, I get distracted really easy and this book kept my attention and it was a page turner.
Another reason why i like this book is because it actually keeps your mind going.
My last reason why i like this book is good, kate and Miro kinda have a friendship going on.
If you love books that are page turners then you have to read this one!
A part of the reason for this, I feel, is because it was a bit difficult to switch points of view as often as Cormier did, I just started to feel like I was understanding a character, getting into his or her head, and then Cormier would switch characters.
I also was a bit confused by the part at the end of the book when Ben and his dad are communicating.
I feel that the part between Ben and his dad was the least developed.
Then, I realized that the General, Mark, has his son in his head, which made me reread the book & understand that the terrorists seem so stupid because that's how the dad feels about them.
It's surprising it is a YA book because it doesn't dumb down it's writing or soften its story.
Two men, Artkin and the younger Miro, along with a partner team up to kidnap 16 preschool children on a school bus with its driver.
A young woman is the bus driver that day and is forced to drive the school bus into an out of the way place where a rickety bridge goes over a river.
Meanwhile a teen boy, is at first in a hospital from a gun shot wound, his father has not been to visit him and it only becomes clear as the story moves on how hie was injured and who his father is.
Ben the son of a general of an anti-terrorist group is also a main character who doesn’t reveal much, but the book has pieces that are written in his perspective.
Lastly there is Kate who happens to be driving a summer camp bus (in place of her sick uncle) full of children.
This book is written mostly in the perspective of Kate, and the bus she is driving, happens to be the very same bus Miro’s terrorist gang hijacks.
I recommend this book to Mystery/Action lovers mostly, but I do encourage other readers to try it out, it’s really worth reading.
Cormier’s novel was just like a computer game about killing: although it was well-crafted and impressive, too much of it can only do harm in the end.Cormier was clever in switching point-of-view, not only to let the reader know what was happening as the plot thickened, but to create deeper connections between the characters and the reader.
I found myself caring for every child, even if I didn’t know their name, and I felt sick to my stomach when Raymond was taken off the bus.
Overall, I really didn't like this book and will never read another Cormier ever again.
This book was amazing.
Even though this book was about death and terrorism, I also feel that the readers can learn a lesson from the General and treasure the things that you love dearly, and be sure that the people you love know that you love them.
I would highly recommend it to anyone who doesn't mind some gore.Ratings:Violence: 5- There is a lot of violence in this book, many people are killed or wounded and those instances are described.
There are a few cuss words, but they are not used in excess.Sex: 4- A male character in the book sees a female character half naked.
As the story continues, other characters are introduced, including Kate, a young woman who happens to sub-in for her uncle and drive the bus on the particular day of the attack.
The terrorist are shocked to see that the bus driver is a female, but decide to continue their plans nevertheless.
The terrorist contact the government and demand three main things in exchange for the lives of the children on board.
Since the kids are going to be on the bus for a couple of day's the terrorist give them candy that is filled with sleeping drugs.
