https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71823.The_Green_Mile_Part_6
Is it the best that a serial can be when both the MC and the reader just feels the horrible need to *rest* after reading it?Perhaps that's what Stephen King intended, whether or not he's implying that the balance of the world is truly on a knife's edge or not, but it doesn't change the fact that this series, even when taken as the serial that it was intended, is emotionally draining.Coffey is truly an odd Christ-figure.Sure, I'm used to this kind of thing in literature, and SK's nice twist on it is uniquely his, so I can't complain at all, but something about this disturbs me, and it truly isn't the fact that the mythos is attached to a huge black man on death row.Is it truly the most that the good can hope for, the hope for a little rest and peace?
What a wonderful ending to this awesome series. I am so glad our book group read it paced out over the course of many months!This last book closed things out & gave us so much information, it felt much longer ( informative) than its actual length.Thank you again SK, Love, one of your many constant readers...
Spajanje krajnosti je ono što obilježava roman, odnosi koji se razvijaju među osuđenicima i zaposlenicima su sve samo ne jednostavni, a obilježeni su netrpeljivosti, nepovjerenjem, a opet razumijevanjem i propitivanjem istine.King osuđenike opisuje na tamo human i ljudski način da čitatelj u konačnici ne može zauzeti stranu onako plošno kako bi to inicijalno trebao/želio.
Takve poruke o društvu su ono što je King ugradio na nevjerojatan način u ovo djelo i što ga, po mojem mišljenju, izdvaja od drugih njegovih djela.U svemu tome King maestralno ubacuje mistične elemente, koji pretežito ljudskoj priči daju jedan poseban pečat.
She sat without answering.
She sat that way for almost a full minute, and then she did something which shocked me as badly as my sudden flow of tears must have shocked her.
She reached out and shoved everything off the table with one wide sweep of her arm – plates, glasses, cups, silverware, the bowl of collards, the bowl of squash, the platter with the carved ham on it, the milk, the pitcher of cold tea.
All off the table and onto the floor, ker-smash.
Christ, what an ending. I need to collect myself before writing a full review, but this is now in my top 5 King books. Maybe Top 3.
This was a very satisfying end to the serial.
SK did an amazing job on this serial novelization. I’d say this ranks up on his top five for me so far. While reading each part, you really go through the array of emotions. You feel like you know each character in the end.
De film is al goed, maar het boek nog beter! Wauw. Een goede manier om het nieuwe jaar te starten. Wat heeft Stephen King toch een geweldige schrijfstijl. Je pakt het boek en leest het uit. Stoppen is geen optie. 5 dikke vette sterren!
King is such a great storyteller
The Green Mile as a whole: 4.5 stars.
I didn't expect him to find the sixth story, but lo and behold, my brother came home from Dad's house last night and tossed me Coffey on the Mile ("Dad told me to give you this").Aw, shucks, pops.
Coffey has to agonize on the Mile, wondering when his pain will be over, and Paul has to worry about dodging Brad Dolan at the senior home, and all of the guards in the prison have to wait and figure out if they will have to kill an innocent man, so why the hell shouldn't we readers have to wait?It wasn't a happy ending, which I was expecting in the first place but still hurt.
I'm guilty of having watched the movie before reading the book...but the book was great! AT the beginning it was hard to see why it being told as a "memoir" was important, but in the end it really brought things together and hammered home the story. The first novel I've read of Stephen King's, and though I'm not well versed into his genre and style, and I thoroughly enjoyed myself.
A satisfying conclusion to a satisfying story. Someone once told me that there are only variants of two stories: The Odyssey, and The Gospel.I don't know if that's true, but John Coffey's name/initials are certainly intentional. Paul too, no doubt.
I will never tire of expressing my love for Stephen King. The final chapter to The Green Mile was the most emotional and really gave you closure. I would have preferred to live my life without knowing what happened to Jan, but I guess it's too late for that. 5/5
I saw the movie before reading the book so it spoiled it for me. But I believe the movie was the same as the book. Love how he added supernatural elements to a great story.
The Green Mile just resolved my debate over who takes the Top Spot between IT and Pet Semetary... they now fight for the second spot, The Green Mile takes number 1!!! Do yourself a favour and get The Green Mile in it’s original Chap book format. It really adds to the reading experience.
OMG I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S OVER! This one was amazing but so utterly heartbreaking. I read this in about 3 hours and could not put it down. I think this series was something I found easy to connect with and the characters were so layered making you feel as if you actually new them. This will probably stick with me for most of my life.
As I sit here and wipe away the tears that have been rolling down my face chapter after chapter now, I think the same thing I thought after having watched the film adaptation for the first time in ten years a week or so ago: this story is beautiful.
But it is absolutely beautiful.
There are really no words to describe how I'm feeling right now or how much this story has touched me.
But I think it's a story everyone should experience at least once, whether in book form or film form.

Ironic that I've always heard the one complaint about Steven King is he "can't finish a story." This final piece of the story was the strongest and made me care about several characters I didn't think I cared for. I'll probably give the entire book 4/5, but I was happy I stayed til the end. A moving though tragic story.
Excellent; vintage Stephen King. Oh, the good old days.
We each owe a death, there are no exceptions, I know that, but sometimes, oh God, the Green Mile is so long.After finishing all the book series I decided to write a review.
I have first watched the movie with Tom Hanks & Michael Clarke Duncan (rest in peace) and it was one of my all time favorite movies.
Recently after I watched it for the “lost count” times I decided to give the book series a go.
The Green Mile is one of his best book series and I highly recommend it.
And so the series draws to a close in really the only way it could do - I will not give anything away but the only way you can guess it will end incorrectly is if you have NEVER read Stephen King and even then i think you will still guess it.
However it does not detract from the ending if anything I think it adds to it - the inevitability of it all - yet you still read on just in case and to see how it all ends.
Okay, the ratings I gave the parts of this series may not reflect it, but this series had a big impact on me.
Without the impact, I think they would be two and three star books, and I can only give impact one star.
I will always recommend this (these) book(s) because even though I don't think it's the actual message, I realized lying is a horrible thing.
At ten (the age I was while reading) I promised myself not to lie unless necessary, sort of in tribute to John Coffey.
I still remember that every time I think about the Green Mile.
I enjoyed the whole series, which I read in the original serial form, although I don't see why the one-volume edition would not work as well. I had already seen the film several times, and it was so faithful to the written story (unlike many adaptations of King novels) that I would think Stephen King himself must have liked it.
God. I don't know how long I cried when I got done with this one, but it was a while. This poor man did not deserve the fate that befell him. Just... Be prepared to cry if you do find yourself reading this whirlwind of emotion.
John Coffey -like the drink but not spelled the same.... Fragile as blown glass, we are, even under the best of conditions. To kill each other with gas and electricity , and in cold blood? The folly. The horror. -Chapter 10
Man, this one tore my heart out. What an amazing series. The movie is a favorite of mine, and the books have now been added to my favorites, as well. I'm kicking myself for having waited so long to read them. King is not an author I typically gravitate toward, but I feel that changing.
Un applauso a scena aperta per Stephen King. Il maestro alla fine ringrazia i lettori, io più che altro ringrazio lui e il suo genio. Ci sono talmente tante cose perfette nel libro che ci vorrebbero un paio d'ore per commentarle, perciò lascio perdere e me ne godo il sapore sulla punta del cervello
Oh man... Oh. Man. That was so good. But so sad at the same time. I loved it.
