https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13359067-a-wanted-man
Not one of his best, but still satisfying for us Reacher fans. Cannot visualize pipsqueek Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher.
Ok, I like Jack Reacher novels.
What I really need to talk about is the upcoming movie "Jack Reacher" based on the first book One Shot.
Tom Cruise is playing Jack Reacher!
Nothing against Tom Cruise (as an actor) but seriously?
The lawn chair was regular size, but it looked tiny under him.
His neck was thick and his hands were the size of dinner plates.
Does that sound anything like Tom Cruise?
He is not a big man.
He's not even an average size man.
In every book.
There is always something about how freakishly big he is.
Tom Cruise is no Jack Reacher.
I am such a fan of the Reacher series that I can't believe how awful and painful of a read this was.
No exaggeration, Reacher is in a car on the world's most boring car ride for the first 30 chapters of the book.
What is worse than reading the most boring Reacher book ever written?
It is listening to the most boring Reacher story ever written while Reacher simultaneously has a broken nose throughout the book.
Not only will I now never, ever pay for another Reacher book (though I might check it out from the library), but I am tempted to write Lee Child and ask for my money back.
Then comes the endless thoughts of Reacher during the car trip.
A lot of it comes together later in the book, but jeez, it was boring reading.
As I said, it was just a thought.Bottom line: Although it was a Reacher novel, I was happier when I turned the last page than I was while reading the novel.
I much prefer to end a novel feeling like I had a good time and can't wait until we once again can share a couple of days, instead of 'jeez, I'm glad that visit is over'.
I'll still eat it, but it's a little sad.I don't know if Child is getting tired of writing for Reacher or what, but he was clearly not in good form this time.
Maybe he thought he could coast a little, what with a movie coming out and Tom Cruise playing Jack Reacher.
I can't blame Child for letting Tom Cruise play Reacher.
So in that sense Child's decision is as practical as his prose and probably a good one.But still (and this makes no logical sense) I can't help but feel that if Dolph Lundgren was playing Jack Reacher this novel may have been better.
Reacher is on top of his game, broken nose or not, and there are two very interesting female characters along with an assortment of bad guys and government bureaucrats who, as we all know, should simply get the hell out of the way and let Reacher get the job done right.I really enjoyed the first three-quarters of the book, but this is three stars for me, rather than four, because the last quarter of the book didn't measure up to the setup.
I really did not want to read the reviews for this book.
I didn't hate Worth Dying For, but I could understand why some readers didn't like it; it wasn't one of the best Reacher books.
Part of the charm of the series is knowing how Reacher thinks, why he can pull off stuff that you or I can't.
If he didn't think like that people would complain about his super powers.
Bottom line, if you like the Reacher series, this one is excellent and you won't be disappointed.
1. He throws his first punch on page 327.
He throws his second punch on page 376..
4. 51 pages later the book ends with plot holes that I won't go into in case you still want to read it.
I'm sorry Lee but if you're mellowing with age and looking after your retirement income then stop writing the books and just leave it to Tom Cruise to ruin the rest for us.I know a lack of violence is not a sign of a bad book, but it was like reading a bad detective novel with a predictably theatrical ending.
5 Stars Reacher is as badass as ever! especially with his broken nose. A Wanted Man had so many twists and turns it was hard to know what was real, who was actually who they said they were and what was the bad guys actual motive. It kept me guessing until I devoured the last page. Sorenson, Delfuenso and McQueen were all interesting side characters. Overall brilliant action packed with more plot twists than an enigma wrapped up in a conundrum inside a puzzle
This book felt sloppy and tired. Certainly the weakest in the series. Not enough cool fights, not enough female action. Just a quickie.
Though it sounds like a boring formula (similar to the 70’s TV series “Kung Fu” with David Carradine) , Childs plays it out like a jazz master.Here Reacher is hitchhiking through Nebraska and gets picked up by two men and a woman, claiming to be software salesmen on the way to Chicago.
As usual, Child uses short declarative sentences with almost no adjectives, making the language disappear and leaving you with a stream of concrete perceptions, dialogue, and problem solving thoughts.
Just a thoughtful guy who honors a good cup of coffee as a sacred pleasure.
I don't understand the bad reviews for A Wanted Man. I enjoyed the "boring" parts - found them atmospheric and suspenseful.
This latest installment may have lacked the usual amount of action, but it still had that Reacher-Is-The-Man magic.
I must agree with another reviewer though - Child didn't segue between the previous novel and this one correctly.
I mean, didn't he get a broken nose in that bunker?
And now he had nothing to do with what happened in the bunker?
Did I miss something?
The worst moments reading Reacher are better than the best moments working, right?
A Wanted Man (Jack Reacher, #17), Lee Child
Another enjoyable adventure with Jack Reacher. He just cannot seem to make it to Virginia without continually getting caught up in some kind of drama in the arse end of nowhere... I enjoyed this story a lot (though haven’t really disliked any of these books so far) and it held my interest throughout. The ending was great and as Reacher has now finally made it to Virginia I’m excited to see what awaits him on his arrival.
But that only makes the ride more fun.Unfortunately, for the last 1/4 of the book you need a four-wheel-drive land cruiser just to get through all the outrageous plot holes.
The climax scenes are a bit technical and overwritten, with one surprise.This would have been 4.5 stars if not for the silly plotting at the end.-Some fun quotes and my usual smattering of pictures:The single most startling line in the book:Reacher said, ‘Can you do Google Maps?’ Lots of Crown Vics in this book!Full size image Did you ever notice how many "pink-faced men" are in Reacher books?
The first book in my original kindle from years back is a Jack Reacher novel and I have long been a fan.
But looking at the polarity of reviews on this one, I almost passed but felt I owed it a read.
The criticisms are just - the book has long boring stretches, the number games get old real fast, and it is repetitive in places.
That's the take-away from Lee Child's seventeenth book in the Jack Reacher series, "A Wanted Man".As always, Child builds up great suspense and tension slowly, revealing only enough details so as to entice the readers on.
Indeed, it's not a huge deal at all, and it's a complaint I have with many detective/wandering hero series.My gripe is this: I get that Reacher is the type that never, technically, goes looking for trouble.
For seventeen books now, Reacher has been hitching a ride into ridiculous adventures that he honestly would have rather done without.

If you want some pure action, no thinking required book then go pick up any other book that vaguely resembles the Reacher series.
We do not know why they would pick someone up like Reacher though since most fleeing criminals don’t really want to take hitchhikers with them.
It seems painfully obvious that Delfuenso is still alive, and I was honestly rather disappointed by this because it was such an obvious plot turn that I thought maybe Child was beginning to go easy on his readers and cater to those action obsessed fans.
That's thousands of pages of thriller fiction, most of it centered on the same formula: Reacher rolls in to a bad situation, sizes up the opposition, puts the hurt down, and then moves on.This installment was a let-down after last year's revealing prequel.
For three books now, Reacher has been aiming towards a specific destination, and for the latter two books he keeps getting waylaid by some criminal element or another.
Me, I'm wondering if Reacher is going to run into trouble just by going to the bathroom."He walked into the stall.
White toilet, now with a sensor-activated flush.
The aforementioned hurt that Reacher put down on the baddies at the end.
Seventeenth in the Jack Reacher suspense series. Reacher is thumbing a ride out of the disaster of  Worth Dying For .My TakeIt's am improvement over  61 Hours  and  Worth Dying For , and yet it lacks the tension and depth of earlier Child-Reacher installments. It's a bit depressing as well when even Reacher starts referring to himself as "old". Sigh.This was fun to read as Reacher figures out who these three people are in the car he's hitched a ride in. How he determines what's a lie and what's
Poor baby.There are some loose ends: Goodman figures they took Lucy out on foot, but we never learn how that occurred or if he was even right; then there's Lester3 whose identity we never learn; and, just why Washington is so concerned about Kansas City's propensity for killing people off.The StoryA dead guy in an abandoned pump house gets the police, FBI, CIA, and the State Department all 'het up with blockades and search parties.
And gots him a real imaginative daddy…!Karen Delfuenso is a cocktail waitress at Missy Smith's, who just wanted to go home to her little girl, Lucy.
I really enjoyed this story, especially the first half of the book, as Reacher gradually figured out what was going on with the people he accepted a ride from as he made his way east from Nebraska.
But Child knows how to keep this series engaging; I have to keep reading to see if Reacher ever makes it to Virginia -- he's been trying to get there for three books now, but always runs into a situation/adventure along the way that requires his particular brand of sleuthing and taking out the bad guys.
This is the third Jack Reacher novel I've read, but I've been jumping around in the chronology.
I believe I've read the first, and then this and one other, which I believe are both fairly recent.
I suppose I could look that up, but it's not all that important.
But my point was that I was a little surprised by the characterization of Jack Reacher in this one.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Reacher fits into the long line of dark, loner characters.
Since leaving the Army, Reacher has been a drifter.
As a drifter, the only possessions he carries are money, a foldable toothbrush and, after 9/11, an expired passport and an ATM debit card.
He has never possessed a driver's license.
Though fully contemporary in knowledge and experience, he harkens back to the western loners of the post-Civil War dime novel period or as re-envisioned by Louis L'Amour and Zane Grey.
The loner as mythic.
Reacher, written by an Englishman with a chiseled pen name, is the classic American confection and not a pretty-man with awkward scientology beliefs.
I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all.
Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies.He embraces it.
Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values.
I've read all of the Jack Reacher novels.
Absolutely love the character, and for the most part, love the series.Have to say, however, that the past three Reacher novels have not — at least for me — come close to the earlier works.
A WANTED MAN has a clever premise, but — and again this is clearly just my opinion — the story stays flat and predictable.
Too predictable, in fact.The early Jack Reacher novels mesmerized me.
The recent ones are hard to finish.Mostly, I just want Reacher to get to Virginia and "meet" the voice.
(I don't think it's my least favorite - that's probably still Nothing to Lose, but I don't feel like it would have been a crisis if I had just skipped this one.) As for the plot/set-up/conspiracy/theme, I waffled between finding this unpersuasive, too cute by half, and just a little bit too far over the top.I don't want to sound to critical - the book passed many thousands of miles in a steel tube over the Pacific Ocean without requiring much in the way of concentration.
Jack Reacher hitchhiking on an interstate in Nebraska and trying to get to Virginia.
Tom Cruise is not Jack Reacher.
All three are dressed similarly, like they work for the same company, but they don't seem to belong together.Nearby a local sheriff has been called to the scene of a homicide.
An eyewitness saw three men enter an abandoned pump house.
Suddenly one FBI agent appears on the scene.
Reading this part of the book reminded me of some video game.
This wasn't the best book by Lee Child.
It is certainly better than watching a movie with Tom Cruise cast as Jack Reacher.
Two guys in the front seat.
Should we or should we not give a lift to this hulk of a guy with a broken nose?
A Wanted Man, the latest in the Reacher series, continues to navigate us through the thoroughly enjoyable and adrenaline pumping rides that Jack Reacher, the ex-military cop, undertakes through the underbelly of America.
The book opens with a crime scene in an old pumping station and slowly but surely ends up intertwining Jack Reacher in the mess even though all he wanted was to continue his journey to Virginia.
I also really like the way Lee brings two women in as main-supporting characters, popping surprises along the way, never another strong male in the picture, and yet, it's not Reacher that helps these women survive the onslaught of the story.
Taking a bit more time with details, perhaps some of them unnecessary, but in the end, Master Lee uses these to ratchet up the tension in such a subtle way the reader doesn't notice, but there are metaphors and clues hidden in there so don't rush through those few passages of trickily stacked details serving dual purposes.And as I read the last page of this excellent story, I had only one question.
