https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118944.American_Born_Chinese
Read for my young adult literature class.A unique message and vivid writing - I loved how he was able to weave together three stories in such a short story!
I KNOW WHAT YOU ARE SAYING ABOUT ME, GRANDMA TSUI!so the stories include the traditional tale of the monkey king:a very tasteful depiction of a chinese gentleman come to america:and this cute young chinese-american boy with a perm:that's what the art looks like.
and if i didn't have to read this for class, i would have missed out on it, because it is not the kind of art i am immediately drawn to.
i am the worst at art-appreciation.
I started reading this in the middle of the night because when you can’t fall asleep after a certain hour, you surrender and pick up a book.And for once in my life I was pretty happy about being awake in the early morning hours because I realized rather quickly that American Born Chinese is one of the best graphic novels I've read so far. This review contains *spoilers*.All Jin Wang wants is to fit in. When his family moves to a new neighborhood, he suddenly finds that he's the only Chinese Amer
I started reading this in the middle of the night because when you can’t fall asleep after a certain hour, you surrender and pick up a book.And for once in my life I was pretty happy about being awake in the early morning hours because I realized rather quickly that American Born Chinese is one of the best graphic novels I've read so far.
Then, to make matters worse, he falls in love with an all-American girl...The writer captured the feelings of having a crush so damn perfectly.
I read American Born Chinese in one breath and now I cannot stop raving about it.
About the only way is by having afro puffs, which white dudes also can't have.
I now fill out that page of the application because I now understand that--although it's not technically legal--my whiteness helps me get jobs.
This graphic novel is a fast read, yet has a complex story, weaving three tales together that don't unite until the climax.
"It's perrty good....fer a graphic novel!") I could use this to launch into yet another political tirade about how instances of "reverse racism" are now given a lot more attention in the press than instances of real racism.
Gene Luen Yang does a good job telling his story about his life (or not his own maybe) as a Chinese American.
I was very excited to read this book becasue first it was a graphic novel and second his story sort of connects with me since I am a Chinese American myself.
Yang chooses an interesting title, "American Born Chinese".
One thing that I really like about this book is that everything is in color, unlike the other graphic novels that are black and white.
In this book Yang mainly focused on the struggles of being a Chinese American, but I believe all minority groups experience the same thing.
I liked Gene Luen Yang's The Shadow Hero a lot, so I had to finally check out the author's most well-known graphic novel, American Born Chinese.
Both books are about the immigrant experience, a topic difficult to write about in ways that are (more or less) politically correct but not too obvious and predictable.
In the case of American Born Chinese, story elements that initially seemed offensive miraculously fall into place when Yang finally weaves the book's three narratives into one.
A graphic novel with a wonderful overarching message about identity and a solid representation of Asian-American characters.
In American Born Chinese, Gene Luen Yang details the story of Jin Wang, the only Chinese-American at his new school.
These three plots come together in an unexpected way to conclude the novel with a bang.Yang does a great job of deconstructing stereotypes about Asian-Americans by tackling them head on.
Though I found the twist at the end of the book abrupt and a bit too absurd, I appreciated how Yang kept the focus on the intricacies of Asian-American identity in a humorous, accessible way.Recommended to those interested in graphic novels or stories featuring diverse characters.
Reference information: Title: American Born ChineseAuthor: Gene Luen YangPublisher: First Second Year: 2006# of pages: 233 Genre: Graphic NovelReading level: 6th grade Interest level: 15 yrs oldPotential hot lava: some racist language, some violenceGeneral response/reaction:I was surprised at how quickly I finished this graphic novel. This book was so easy to read (probably because it was a graphic novel). When I read the inside flap for the plot of the book, I was surprised to read that there w
Chin-Kee turns out to be more than just Danny’s cousin.Plot summary:The Monkey King wants to be hailed as a deity but the gods will not allow it.
However, the Creator is not happy with the Monkey King’s disrespect and buries the Monkey King under a mountain of rocks for 500 years.Jin Wang is a Chinese-American kid who doesn’t feel like he fits in anywhere.
Jin Wang wants to become someone else and he soon gets his wish and transforms into another person.Danny is an American boy who has transferred to three different schools in the past few years.
It's funny that the most notable thing I can tell you about this book is that it's in colour.That might not strike you as odd, but really, for the type of story Yang tells, the comics industry has almost universally awarded such stories a black and white printing.
Strangely, the Chin-Kee episodes actually carry a laugh track.It should be notable that the only bad thing I have to say about the book was that I didn't find it as good as its hype.
Yang's book picked up a fistful of worthy awards last year.
One thing that stood out most is that the author focused on exploring the inner self-conscious shame of the immigrant or non-Western, instead of making his main characters perfect, full of mature pride for his identity.
In fact, the students around Jin Wang and Wei Chen were portrayed pretty realistically too - some of them were disgusting bullies seeing only one stereotypical image of the Asian, some were more subtly bigoted, and some others don't treat them any different.
Although I'm Asian, not an Asian-American, I believe this kind of more complex identities are the real thing everywhere, so I really like how the author told his story this way.Oh, and the twist in how the three stories connect?
SO FLIPPING GOOD! Quite a quirky book, but it benefits from it. It does it's own thing and completely does it well. The themes were powerful and well delivered: I loved seeing the three different stories comment on racism, but more than that, self acceptance.The art wasn't /necessarily/ outstanding, in the terms that I didn't find myself ogling over the illustrations. BUT, it was perfect for this story. It was wonderful! I liked it! Don't get me wrong! The monkey pictures were so cute!I'll definitely be reading more by this author!
Yang's use of stereotypes throughout all three narratives, most apparent with the character Chin-Kee, also provide scathing commentary on representations of Asian characters in visual media.
But when you finally learn that (view spoiler)[Chin-Kee exists as a foil to Danny/Jin (hide spoiler)], the purpose of this stereotyping becomes all too clear.I like reading novels that challenge my thinking and surprise me.
I expected American Born Chinese to be good, but out of all the graphic novels I've read in the last three months, it is the best.
i've never ~actually~ read a graphic novel and i wasn't expecting it to make such a huge mark on my perspective of life.
i think it's mostly because my personal experience in elementary school was similar to jin's, one of our main characters.
this sort of thing happened when i moved to a new city, a new school, but i wasn't entirely conscious of the racist remarks.
i think i'll be reading more graphic novels in the future, as this one was a quick, but long lasting read.
(also, i think the art is lovely, so graphic novels!!
I’ve been hearing about Gene Luen Yang’s graphic novel American Born Chinese for months.
The book is good, but is really great?This is only the fourth graphic novel I’ve read this year, so I am far from an expert on the genre.
However, I find both Deogratias and Persepolis far superior in both story and content.In American Born Chinese, Yang interweaves three seemingly unconnected stories: the main plot about a young Chinese-American boy, Jin Wang; a subplot about an exaggeratedly-Anglo teenager, Danny, and his extra-exaggeratedly-Chinese cousin, Chin-Kee; and the legend of the Monkey King.The graphic novel is ambitious, addressing identity struggles, racism, and learning to accept one’s heritage.
Those two flaws keep a good novel from being a great one.
Surprised by how sophisticated and layered this turned out to be.
Three stories of quiet power unfurl--the Monkey King, who undertakes a quest for dominance after a slight by the gods; Jin Wang, the title character and one of a handful of Asian students at his elementary school, trying to maneuver through bullies, love, and American culture; and Danny, a white teenager, and his Chinese cousin, Chin-kee, the embodiment of the racist Chinese stereotype.
The whole time I knew what the author was up to, but his point has an amazing visual power with the way it is presented.

This book mixes three different stories to combine as one overall book about how it is like being the An Chinese American boy.
All story are mixed together so all one sees is the bites and parts until the end.
The first story is the famous Chinese Fable, Journey to the West, but just with the Monkey King trying to teach morals.
It details his life from childhood until the end of middle school with his best friend Wei-Chein.
Then the third story of Danny who is finally gets a visit from his cousin, Chin-Kee who he tries to avoid by changing schools every year before his visit.
Assigned reading for MLIS 7421: Multicultural Youth Literature.
SpoilersThe artwork was great, the three stories were good too (well, until the end when they all bizarrely came together).
Loved the Monkey King fable, and Jin Wang's story of struggling to fit into middle school as the only Chinese American student, thought they were both quite insightful and interesting (before it went weird at the end).
I know it was meant to be symbolic of Jin struggling with his identity/race, and that the moral of the story was for Jin to accept and love who he was but the execution of it didn't work for me.
4/5stars
American Born Chinese is a standalone graphic novel that tells three narratives: When Jin Wang’s family moves, he’s the only Chinese-American there, and he wants so desperately to fit in; the Monkey King wants nothing more than to be the most powerful being, and hide his monkey nature; Chin-Kee is how the Chinese are portrayed in the media, and even has a running “laugh track” along the bottom.All three stories are about what it means to want to be someone or something that you’re not, what it means to identify with something that you’re not, and why it’s important to accept who you are.
It’s a little messy, but it works.American Born Chinese is a wonderful story.
“It’s easy to become anything you wish . . . so long as you’re willing to forfeit your soul.” When I first read this graphic novel, I was not impressed. Later I realized, it was because I had not understood it fully. So I went online, learned who the Monkey King was, and reread the entire thing. I am glad I did that, otherwise the morals of the story would have evaded me.This follows three stories, one follows the legend of Monkey King, the other is about a second-generation Chinese-American, a
So I went online, learned who the Monkey King was, and reread the entire thing.
Although unrelated at first, we later learn they are all connected in ways we could not have suspected.
It might take two reads for people to truly see what happened.The book is a deep exploration of the immigrant experience in America, following the struggles of recent immigrants all the way to various native born generations.
Everything from learning the language and assimilating in order to fit in, and ignoring their roots, to the daily racial struggles of people.I am an immigrant, and I had to assimilate.
Intimate, engaging story that anyone can relate to. Well done.
I love it when you hear a book is good and then you read it and experience it and it's so much more.
When a book is great it opens you to a new place and transports you.
I feel I have lived a new experience of some kind.
The book tells the story Of Jin Wang and his time at an American school.
He wants to fit in and doesn't want to be different.
It is also telling us the myth of Monkey and how he wanted to fit in as a master of Kung Fu among the gods.
Just an amazing story.
3.5*Nice story about being yourself and accepting the way you are.
He was Vietnamese, and because I was still so naive, I couldn't figure out why he would be so mean to me.One thing that I didn't relate to was wanting to be white.
Though I was bullied, though I felt the weight of being ethnically different, I never wanted to be white.
Only in recent years have I started to come out of that, accepting and wanting to be both American and Chinese, in that they are not mutually exclusive.As for this book, it's pretty entertaining and touches on some important themes.
I gave this graphic novel 3.5 starsI've been wanting to read this graphic novel ever since I saw it on FrenchieDee's YouTube channel.
To me, it seemed as if Yang ran out of steam before he had finished all the characters' stories.
In short, the story was going good until it abruptly ended.Nevertheless, the artwork in the book was really eye catching.
They weren't too extravagant in look however, they were befitting of the story that Yang was trying to tell.
All in all, I'd recommend this graphic novel for anyone who wants a good read that's quick and comical.
"American Born Chinese" has three stories combined into one: the story of the Monkey King and his fight for acceptance among the pantheon of Gods; a lewd Western caricature of Chinese people called Chin-Kee; and at its heart the coming of age story of Jin, a young Chinese boy growing up in America.
The story is drawn in a cartoony/Manga type style and coloured by Lark Pien.
There were moments in Jin's story where his life mirrored my own (the girl at the cinema part) and despite the pervading message - accept who you are and be happy - it's neither patronising or overbearing.
Gene Luen Yang blends three stories (that of the famous chinese Monkey god from Journey to the West; the story of Jin Wang, an American boy born of Chinese immigrants; and Chin-Kee, a walking stereotype) into one humorous and thought-provoking story told in graphic novel form that reads like a self-effacing diary.
Yang manages to deal with serious subjects with a light hand, respecting them without getting bogged down in didacticism or the pointing of fingers.
