https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41818.Robot_Dreams
Isaac Asimov’s Robot Dreams is a wonderful collection of short stories from one of the most influential writers of science fiction.
Many of Asimov’s stories are deceptively simple; even though they’re not all actually tied together by theme (despite the title), they have a cumulative power.
I found myself reading one after the other and becoming more engrossed in each successive story.
It doesn’t feel like Asimov builds worlds.
This is highly recommended for anyone who enjoys Asimov’s longer works (like the Foundation Series).
It’s also interesting to read Asimov’s stories as a prophetic vision of our future.
Robot Dreams, Isaac Asimov Robot Dreams (1986) is a collection of science fiction short stories by Isaac Asimov, illustrated by Ralph McQuarrie.
The title story is about Susan Calvin's discovery of a robot with rather disturbing dreams.
مجموعه داستان علمی تخیلی از ایزاک آسیموف. بيشتر داستان ها، فقط گسترش يه ايده ى فلسفى يا علمى تخيلى بودن، و پيرنگ جذابى نداشتن. به خاطر همين، وقتى اون ايده ى اصلى جذاب بود، داستان هم جذاب بود؛ و وقتى اون ايده به اندازه كافى جذاب نبود، داستان هم ضعيف بود.داستان "آخرين سؤال" هم به طرز ابلهانه اى، فقط يك پنجمش ترجمه شده بود. نمى دونم مترجم چى فكر كرده واقعاً؟
Short story collections are always a mixed bag, but the stories here that are brilliant, perceptive, satirical and illuminating make up for the ones that I thought were just ok. Despite the title, robots are not featured in many of the stories, but they did contain computers, aliens, social science, Neanderthals, memory-enhancing drugs and bees. A very entertaining group of stories.
While reading these stories, I wouldn't have discribed them as breathtaking...
Looking back though, after having read the whole book: There's just something about them.
I know stories like "The Ugly Little Boy" and "Lest We Rememeber" will stick with me for a long time to come and the story "Hostess", I think, will actually end up inspiring what I'm writing now...There's just something about Asimov.
Though you can't put your finger on it at times, sometimes authors just have that bit of something magical that sticks in your heart and brain...Check out some Asimov when you get the time...
The title implies that many or most of the stories in this collection will be about robots. Not so. Most of them aren't, in fact. Instead, it's a much wider spectrum of Asimov's science fiction writing. Usually, collections of short stories are mixed. Some are better than others, and some just aren't worth reading. That just isn't the case here. There wasn't a single story that I felt like skipping at any point. True, some of them were standouts, even in a uniformly good collection. Absolutely worth reading, cover to cover.
Dang. Many of these are *not* robot stories. I mean, I love Asimov, period, but I really wanted a big old sustained dose of interpretations & misinterpretations of the three laws....Also, most of the stories seemed (and probably were) familiar. Time to let this one go....(I, Robot, is the first collection of short stories. Second is The Rest of the Robots. Robot Dreams only has one new story in it. The Complete Robot is reported to be truly complete.)
کتابی خوب با ترجمهای بد.. واقعاً احساس میکنم بعضی داستانها مثل میزبان یا آخرین سوال، توی فرایند ترجمه از بین رفتند.. در مورد چندتا از داستانهای کتاب توضیح جدایی نوشتم که میتونید در صفحهاش بخونید.
کتابی خوب با ترجمه‌ای بد.. واقعاً احساس می‌کنم بعضی داستان‌ها مثل میزبان یا آخرین سوال، توی فرایند ترجمه از بین رفتند.. در مورد چندتا از داستان‌های کتاب توضیح جدایی نوشتم که می‌تونید در صفحه‌اش بخونید.
9/10
If you have not read a single word penned by Issac Asimov (and if you consider yourself a fan of science fiction...that would be scandalous), then this is the work to start with.
Reading these stories is a constant reminder of just how much the genre owes to his genius, whether it be the in the works of the authors who followed him, or the visual images he inspired.
Without Asimov, there would be no Star Trek, no Star Wars, no Babylon 5, no Battlestar Galactica...and this collection hammers that realization home.
Asimov is at home in the novel or the short story.
This is an enjoyable collection of stories that deal with A.I. as reflected in robots or computers.
(Not all stories have robots which is a little misleading from the cover and title, but hey you can't judge a book by it's.....).
The first story deals with a theme of which Asimov is the master storyteller of, i.e. robot mysteries.
Very cool story.
Also several reviews mention, "The Final Question" this was one of the more philosophical stories and one of the best.Enjoyable read for Asimov fans.
The rest of the book was Asimov's greatest hits.
The best of those are sure classics: (My favorites: Eyes Do More Than See, The Martian Way (one of the all time best), The Last Question, Does a Bee Care?, The Feeling of Power (I really liked), Ugly Little Boy, The Billiard Ball and The Last Answer.It was a great pleasure to re-read these once again after a long time.
If you are just acquainting yourself with Asimov, this is a fine collection to start with.
If you like what you've read here, there is so so much more.
Un compendio de historias de robots y supercomputadoras donde los problemas se resuelven con lógica y a veces simplemente con ironía.Asimov juega de forma magistral con las Tres Leyes de la Robótica que él mismo inventó.
Crea robots y computadoras que a pesar de ser artificiales tienen en todos los casos una personalidad propia.Los relatos que más recomiendo de este libro son: Sueños de Robot, La máquina que ganó la guerra, La última pregunta, La sensación de poder y Amor verdadero.Este será por siempre uno de mis libros favoritos.
Ha dejado una honda huella en mi adolescencia y marcó la dirección literaria de los años que siguieron.Eternas gracias al Buen Doctor.
Fun short stories, but a bit dated. Hard to read some of the computer and robot stories.
Despite having known his names my whole life I’ve never read anything by Isaac Asimov.
Well, I’ve corrected my omission with this collection of shorts stories of robots, AIs, aliens, time travel, etc.
Scifi to me is a means to observe ourselves - what do we as humans do in the face of the unknown, something new, something frightening, something promising.
Part hard science, part philosophical debate, part moral struggles, this collection of stories will take you through the human condition in a wonderfully sharp, often funny, never boring tone.
It’s scifi for the thinking, curious brains out there.
L'opera è illustrata da Ralph McQuarry, che ha curato anche la copertina, reinterpretando il quadro Avvampante giugno di Frederic Lord Leighton.I racconti inseriti in questa raccolta sono:Il piccolo robot perdutoSogni di robotColtura microbicaL'ospiteSallyCrumiroLa macchina che vinse la guerraOcchi non soltanto per vedere Le acque di SaturnoDiritto di voto Barzellettiere L'ultima domandaChe cosa importa a un'apeLuciscultura Nove volte setteS come Zebatinsky L'ultimo nato La palla da biliardoVero amoreL'ultima rispostaUna questione di memoriaAssolutamente non si può cercare di recensire un libro di Asimov dei robot, senza enunciare ciò che sta alla base di queste storie e cioè le ormai universalmente note "Tre leggi della robotica" alle quali obbediscono tutti i robot che compaiono nei suoi racconti (e in molti racconti di altri autori):1.
Sogni di robot è una raccolta di racconti che non mantiene innanzitutto la promessa del suo titolo: i racconti sui robot sono la minoranza, a fronte di una larga maggioranza di racconti sparsi che, lungi dall'essere onirici o visionari, sono caratterizzati esclusivamente dal rigore (fanta)scientifico che contraddistingue l'opera asimoviana.
Se poi si considera che i racconti che innalzano maggiormente il livello qualitativo (uno su tutti, L'ultima domanda) sono presenti in altre racconte (a cominciare dall'imprescindibile Il meglio di Asimov), questa raccolta diventa del tutto superflua e dimenticabile.Gradevolissmo il racconto, scritto per l'occasione, che dà il titolo alla raccolta: in Sogni di robot l'elemento onirico si presenta come nuovo livello di autocoscienza che fa scoprire l'umanità (sognata, agognata) dei robot.
Questa domanda verrà posta nel corso di trilioni e trilioni di anni da razze sempre più evolute ad elaboratori sempre più intelligenti, fino ad arrivare alla risposta.Il secondo racconto inizia con la morte del protagonista, che si trova a confrontarsi con un'entità "superiore", la Voce, la quale dichiara di essere pressoché onnisciente e di aver creato l'Universo.
Ma il protagonista riesce probabilmente a capire quale sia, in realtà, la risposta che la Voce sta cercando.Ogni racconto porta a riflessioni su tematiche attuali o che lo saranno in un futuro non troppo lontano: il bello di Asimov è che ha saputo precorrere i tempi e ci ha preso spesso.La recensione è presso http://www.jhack.it/blog/2012/02/04/s...
I grabbed his book because I had already bought all the Ray Bradbury next to it.The first thing that hit me was Asimov's clipped writing style.
The parts where I wanted more were continuously lacking and parts I felt weren't helpful droned excessively long to the point where I finally gave into speed reading.
Fortunately, about half the stories were rock solid and a few other were sharp enough to cut glass.After reading Asimov's collection of short stories, I see him as a writer that placed more emphasis towards the concept rather than the execution.
Some readers might be highly responsive to computer writing style (think of reading a book by HAL).
Una ve más, Asimov me demuestra que es el maestro supremo de la Sci-Fi. Si bien hay autores que le superan en subgéneros más especificos, es éste autor el máximo exponente del futurismo y esa extraña mezcla entre psicología, antropología y ciencia ficción.
Asimov no sólo analiza en sus cuentos la tecnología (muy factibles e incluso ya realizadas) que traerá el paso del tiempo, sino que también analiza el uso que se le dará a esta, y la influencia que tendrá sobre la sociedad que la alcance.
For my reviews of his other robot short stories, please see any of my previous reviews for his earlier books: 0.1, 0.2, 0.3Robot Dreams stars Susan Calvin in her role as boss-of-underling where she is berating an underling for using a new fractal type of mathematics in order to create a new type of positronic brain.
She has her underling convinced that she - the underling is also female - is going to be fired because the mathematics had an unexpected outcome on how the robot experienced the world.
A compilation of short stories written by one of the all-time masters of sci-fi writing, Isaac Asimov. Nothing I can say that already hasn't been said about him and his work. It's fascinating to read about future technologies from the past. Sure, some of it is outdated but it's not just about the technology it's about the human condition as a result of it. It's why I love sci-fi. You can change the time, scene, advances in technology, etc. but the core of humanness stays the same: love, jealousy, power, anger, sadness, privilege, forgiveness, embarrassment, error, logic, realization...
3.5 stars overall. A great collection short stories. Some make you laugh, but most of them make you think. Sure, some of the stories are outdated, but, the majority are within the scope of the realm of possibility. This book seems like a great introduction to the author's full novels. I will definitely be reading more of his work
It's been a long time, but this is the book that first turned me on to Asimov as a young pup. I've had a thing for robots for as long as I can remember and just loved the cover of this book. And then loved the contents.
This is easily one of Asimov's greatest short story collection, and as one of the few early sci-fi writers he defines a genre unknown to the public during his time. His ideas were revolutionary and continue to inspire science fiction today, although he is very wordy. Really good book (:
It was a sad story and I think the robot shouldn't have been destroyed. They should have been amazed at his dream.
Loved it! Has everything a sci-fi nerd could ask for. The only thing that cost Asimov a star was the prose. "Elaborately locked"? Seriously?
will review at www.fantasyliterature.com
I've loved Asimov's short stories since I was a kid and these stand the test of time (for me) and there were even one or two that I hadn't read before.
"Sueños de Robot" es una colección de 21 cuentos cortos de  Isaac ASIMOV . La mayoría ya habían sido publicados en otras colecciones, excepto la historia 'Sueños de Robot' que fue escrita explícitamente para esta recopilación y narra el descubrimiento por la doctora Susan Calvin de un robot con perturbadores sueños. Muchas de las otras historias están inspiradas en conflictos entre los robots y las Tres Leyes de la Robótica de Asimov. Los cuentos son:1. El pequeño robot perdido: El relato habla
El pequeño robot perdido: El relato habla de la desaparición de un robot y los esfuerzos de Susan Calvin por encontrar a este ejemplar que tiene una pequeña variación en las tres leyes.
¿Criar un hombre...?: Una sencilla disputa por la fabricación del primer campo de fuerza repelelotodo se convierte en una trama filosófico-científica, cuando al final, uno de los personajes se pregunta si los humanos no somos más que simples bacterias cultivadas por seres superiores.
Una vez más, Asimov explora la posible dependencia que podrían tener los seres humanos de su propia tecnología.11.
