https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99298.The_Harry_Potter_Collection_1_4
This was not a series of books for me.
This was (and although I rarely admit it, is) my life.
I read the series every year - always aiming to finish it on July 31st: Harry's birthday.
I used to (and still would if I could) pretend to be Harry, or Hermione in reception!
I have grown up with Harry - from being read it as a child to compulsively obsessing over it.
For my entire life, Hermione has been my role model!
Yay! Always a joy reading Harry Potter.
Let's just say I'm a fan, okay?
Having grown up reading C.S. Lewis' Chronicles of Narnia and Tolkien's The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings trilogy, I was primed for another installment of a young, unlikely hero marked by fate to battle the forces of evil, getting by with a little help from his friends.
Unlike some Tolkien/Lewis buffs, I am not offended by Rowling's similarities to their works, because archetypes are the backbone of literature.
I also think Rowling writes adolescent/young adult mentalities extremely well.
And let's face it; I love the British and their ways, and would have loved boarding school.
I could tell I better get caught up quick, so I read the first four books quite quickly, then I felt I was caught up with my family.
As the movies started coming out, I'd read all the book up to and including the movie book each time, so I've read or listened to them all at least 3 or more times each, usually more.
Books 1-4 are much more innocent than the last two.
Book 3 starts getting a little dark, and much more in the last ones.
That has been one of the most pleasant parts to read, and of course how much smarter the better educated they are too.
I'd much rather attempt "Arry P'otter, than, um... - well, see, i can check the English version after every sentence/paragraph..I tried a kid's book, but without pictures, i don't get far- looking up the words becomes tiresome, so this is perhaps a way to go. :P
This series is an integral part of my childhood.
It taught me to dream, imagine, create- and all other things that are essential to life.
I remember my grade school and how I and my classmates would imagine that we are in Hogwarts.
It inspired young children and even adults to believe and imagine.
All great things come to an end but the epic that is Harry Potter will continue to live on.
Someday when I'll have a family of my own, I'll encourage my children to read Harry Potter.
No book can be compared to this series- it is a timeless masterpiece.
Of all these books, the first was my favorite. The series gets very dark--extremely thought provoking which I absolutely loved. And yet, nothing is like the whimsy and falling in love-ness I associate with the introduction we get to Hogwarts, Harry, Hermione and Ron. Thoroughly delightful--all of my children have also enjoyed these well-written imaginative stories.
I started out reading these to my daughter and I was hooked! Love them! Truly magical in every way.
My favorite books ever!!! I'm crazy about HP, reading every detail to detail. Each summer or winter break, I cannot help myself, and I must read through the whole series once.
Will read again
I still remembered that day, years ago, when I stumbled upon the first book. I thought, why on earth that a book about young wizard sitting on the popular bookshelves. I took one home out of curiosity and from then on, I am enchanted. I also still remembered the scent of the last book of the series, so bittersweet, because after that turn of the last page, there will be no more stories about friendship, love, sacrifice and moreover, courage.
This was a very good book. After the first time reading the first book, I doubted Rowling could do any better. How wrong I was. This book is just as good as the first, filled with humor, action, and friendship. I now know why it has been such a good series. This book is about Harry Potter, who is attending his second year at Hogwarts. He faces many challenges there and at his Uncle's house. He also receives a warning from a mysterious creature that he is in danger-and Lord Voldemort will return.
The sotries are moving and magical, and although the content of Harry's story is quite dark - an orphaned boy who has an abusive childhood only to discover at the age of 11 that he is a wizard and famous in the undergroud wizarding world and that his parents were murdered by the most powerful dark wizard ever, Lord Voldemort who incidentally wants Harry dead - Rowling communicates it in such a way that it doesn't appear to be so dark and opressive as it can at times appear in the later books.
I read the books seperately like a normal person, but I found this on the web and thought I should review it.
Yeah, I have to say, I liked the first four books.
The first one is because that I love the way the author can express so much in so little words, and the story is actually pretty interesting, and is a perfect start and intro to the series.
I chose it as one of my favourite because in this story, Voldemort, the dark lord that is almost destroyed by Harry Potter, has returned and has killed Cedric Diggory.
Books 1 and 2 read more as very young adult fiction, but Rowling really opens into a deeper world with books 3 and 4.
4 is one of my favorites as it gets out of the bubble of Hogwarts and reveals more of the magical world in which Harry Potter resides.
It surprises me how many of my high school students have not read any of the HP books, let alone the entire series.
Harry Potter is true escapist fiction.
The detail of the world created by Rowling is astounding.
I love all Harry Potter Books.
I read them so often, that it feels like I lived in Hogwards together with Harry, Ron and Hermione.
The moment I am opening a Harry Potter (just anyone of them) I forget everything around me until I finished it.
Usually it even takes me some days after I finished reading it to really waking up from the world of J.K. Rowling.
The Harry-Potter books are those kind of books with which I get really sad, when I finished reading them.
Unfortunately they are so exciting that it doesn't take me long to read them.
I was obsessed with these books when they came out and kids still are today in classrooms. Harry Potter finds out the true story of his life and parents and learns about his powers. So many fun adventures and events he encounters leaves kids wanting to continue reading more and more of the series. I could use this in my classroom by teaching sequential order.
I am so glad that there was an option on here to review the first four books instead of the whole series, as I didn't enjoy the three books after Goblet of Fire as much as these.
As someone who grew up a similar age to Harry, I felt like I was on an emotional journey alongside him during every book.
I am still to this day amazed by the imagination of J.K Rowling and her ability to capture the hearts of both children and adults alike.
The Goblet of Fire is my favorite of the four but I am almost certain that all four books will stand the test of time.
I remember how everyone loved Harry Potter and I would think "what's the big deal, it's just a book." Then my cousin who was cleaning out his bookshelf decided he no longer wanted these books and have then to me saying I should read it. I figured why not and immediately fell in love with the series. It truly is a magical experience.
Do the Harry Potter books need an introduction?As we all know it’s a world of magic loved by many. If a person hasn’t read the books then they have watched the films. If they have not done either of those things, they must have heard some kind of Harry Potter related comment. Harry Potter has become so much part of our world that I have trouble believing people need reviews.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Reread
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
see individual book for review
