https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/382549.The_Cardinal_of_the_Kremlin
It's got the right dose of technology, warfare, sci-fi hi-tech stuff, espionage, bad Russians, good Russians, noble Russians, Afghanistan, satellites, LASERS, friggin' lasers, narrate that Dr. Evil style, everything you can expect from an 80s cocktail of Texas Ranger meets MIT postgrad meets someone who's read about Soviet interrogation methods and how women think on USENET.The book is quite good in that it lacks the later taint of too much White House politics that became Clancy's calling card, making him the favorite reading slash fapping material among politicians, ahead of Playboy and Good Housewives.
Clancy had a dirty mind once.We do need a limerick, now:With cliche names as sharp as razor,Ryan wore a Navy blazer,Russian spies,Lesbians and lies,In the end, 'twas a friggin' laser.Have much funski,Igor
This was the first Tom Clancy book that I ever read and it turned out to be my least favorite.
On the good side, I loved the introduction of "Mr. Clark" who is my favorite character of the Clancy novels.
However, the novel seemed to drag in places and I just found myself wanting the plot to move along.
Overall, it was still a god read and by other author's standards would have been a 4 star effort at least.
However, I hold Clancy to a higher standard based on his later efforts so he has to live with 3 to 3.5 stars for this one.
Following the disappointing Patriot Games, Clancy redeemed himself (in my eyes) with a spy thriller with classical ingredients, i.e. the extrication of a Soviet double agent by the Americans. It's been a long while since I've read any Clancy, so caveat lector is in place here. But I would say that should I re-read any of the books, it is this one (and The Sum of All Fears).
There is little in the way of fanciful prose, or endearing characters and the story is choppy, however this is far from unusual for him.
He relies a good deal on the technical aspects of cutting edge weaponry and good old fashioned spy vs spy action to keep readers turning the page.Yes, Jack Ryan is back, but even in his second book he is starting to wear thin and thankfully plays only a small, yet important role.
As the ultimate anti-James Bond spy, he makes the book worth it all by himself.Obviously, I recommend this to all Clancy fans.
Executive Summary: I found this one a bit uneven. The start was pretty slow, but the pace picked up as it went on. Good, but not great.Audiobook: Michael Prichard did a decent job narrating. He spoke clearly with good inflection and volume, but didn't really add anything to the book. Audio a good option, but definitely not a must listen. Full Review I mostly read SFF, so it's always nice to take a break with another genre. I hadn't exactly planned to listen to this one, but I had put a hold in f
The timing on my hold worked out pretty well to fit this into my schedule.When I was younger I probably read thrillers more than any other genre, but I never read and Tom Clancy apart from Net Force (and in writing this review I discovered he didn't even write that).
Don't get me wrong, there are still a few gunfights, explosions and a car chase, but I felt like they aren't as prevalent as other Jack Ryan stories.I thought the end of the book really picked up the pacing, likely because the early part spent so much time moving the pieces into place and setting up the stakes of the book.I enjoyed the book, but I didn't love it.
(view spoiler)[Clancy presents us with Bea Taussig who works in the administrative staff at the Tea Clipper project and is a lesbian who has fallen in love with Candace Long, one of the scientists on the project who happens to be engaged to the brilliant lead scientist on the project, Alan Gregory.
[7] But even if an outward disdain for men in a general sense were a good marker for us that Bea were a lesbian (and I'm saying that it's not) then we still have the problem of motivation--because why would she sell state military secrets to the Soviets?
Vale, a partir de la mitad gana en protagonismo.Lo siento, pero ver a los fedayines (al menos no son mujahidines) como “buenos” me ha costado mucho a la luz de lo que aconteció después.
Se le nota que está escrita en el 1987…Mucho espía pero un desarrollo un poco lento.Y eso, que con todo lo anterior solo le aúpa a las tres estrellas el que me gusta el estilo directo, con mucho diálogo.
no he tenido mucho éxito en mi estreno con Clancy, no.
Whenever one of Tom Clancy's novels deals with any subject I know a little something about, it always strikes me as being well-written and true-to-life.
This novel deals with spies and counter-intelligence, subjects about which I know very little; however, based upon what Clancy has written about on other topics, I am left with the strong impression that this story rings true to life, as well.
It is based upon the premise that the American CIA has had a deep-cover agent operating in the Soviet Union's Ministry of Defense for thirty years.
It is Clancy at his very best!
The Cardinal of the Kremlin The Cardinal of the Kremlin by Tom Clancy recounts a fictional story of political intrigue and espionage between the United States of America and the United Soviet Socialist Republic (U.S.S.R.) during the Cold War era. The book is 547 pages long, and was published by G. P. Putnam’s Sons in 1988. The plot revolves around the two nation’s development of a program akin to the Strategic Defense Initiative originally proposed by Ronald Reagan, which was devoted to serve as
The main characters are Jack Ryan, a United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) counter-espionage data analyst, and Colonel Mikhail Semyonovich Filitov also known as the Cardinal, a highly placed spy in the Soviet Defense Ministry.
Tom Clancy utilizes characterization, point of view, and setting to present the audience with the full story in a convoluted plot around the clandestine art known as espionage.
The Cardinal of the Kremlin is set predominantly in the Soviet Union during the Cold War. However, Clancy also utilizes various locations in the United States and the Afghan-Pakistani border.
I was worried it would be antiquated, or that it would depict a Soviet Union that didn't really exist, as the collapse of the USSR in the late 1980s/early 1990s showed that how little the West really understood what the reality of the Soviet Union actually was.I decided to read the book recently, partially to say I had read all of the Jack Ryan novels, partially because I wanted to know more of Ryan's history (events in this novel were referenced several times in Clancy's later works), and partially because I had decided to treat it as a period piece (and I have in the past enjoyed good tales of Cold War intrigue).
In The Cardinal of the Kremlin, I liked how Tom Clancy combined action scenes from the tribal groups of the Mujahedin fending off the 1980s invasion of the Soviets, with the technical details of the newly developed arms, to see which of the 2 superpowers, the US and the USSR, could be the first to make and use a laser defense system against ballistic missiles.
The idea is that you can use electromagnets to oscillate the electrons crosswise to their path”.(Clancy 153, 156)	I would recommend this book to anyone who likes action thrillers, but apart from the genre’s usual intrigue and action, there is also a lot of detail and technical background combined with well developed characters.
Man, one of the underrated casualties of the fall of the Soviet Union was Tom Clancy's career.
The spy plot of this book is fun, if hokey, yoked as it is to the author's political agenda ("STAR WARS!
It's how today's serious armchair generals stroke their chins and avow hatred for war.") and the demands of writing massive best sellers (CIA's eponymous, undetectable agent: a tough old Red Army superhero who blew up swathes of Nazis and loves his homeland, but who sees the evils of Communism when his family is killed by the needs of the many) .
Ahh…..here at last we see the character development of Tom Clancy as architect of the Jack Ryan reality and in the character Jack Ryan himself who has in The Cardinal of the Kremlin lost the obnoxious edge to his arrogance, icing it down with a more calculated daring.
Edging toward a five star rating here, Clancy leaves behind some of the more irritating components of his first novels (namely Jack’s wife and personal life) to focus more fully upon the fascinating world of international espionage and intrigue.
Tom Clancy, The Cardinal of the Kremlin
“The Cardinal Of The Kremlin” (TCOTK) is the fourth book written by the late Tom Clancy and the third featuring John Ryan.
Many of his novels are classified as techno-thrillers...and that’s where my love hate relationship with his book lies.Clancy is a wonderful story teller building tension, speed, and urgency.
Clancy drops the pace to the many pages of technical specs of military systems- laser defence systems, submarine engine and propulsion systems, for example - that doesn’t add to the story but highlights in detail certain elements of where a story is based.
I like the historical backdrop, unlike Red Rabbit where we had a United States vs Soviet Union, this time we get a story set in Afghanistan dealing with the Russians vs the Middle East.
The way Clancy wrote the scene made me chuckle, and there are other moments throughout the book with the character of John Patrick Ryan that where humorous.
I didn't like it as much as Red Rabbit and The Hunt For Red October, but it is still a fun novel to read if you are planning a long winded stay with a story.
Yet another interesting work of cold war propaganda from Mr Clancy.The story of this book had me scratching my head...
Again the characters are underdeveloped and very 2d, it doesn't even explain why a decorated war hero of the soviet union would turn spy (something i would have been interested to hear, even though the story does hint that it was because his family died...
ok rather similar to Marko from HFRO but ok).On the plus side the story is interesting if viewed from the whole, though it was just too much and some parts seemed to have been put in just to give the soviets a good kicking.
If I had the option, I would give this book 3.5 stars.
It was a good, entertaining read although perhaps not up to the level of other Clancy stories.
However, I found the plot resolution mostly predictable.
Still I was fascinated by the characters and various plot threads.
It was interesting to pick up on characters from earlier novels – even all the way back to Red October.I actually did not intend to read this book at this time but two years ago, I moved from Bloomington to adjacent Normal.
This was the last chance to use the Bloomington library card before it expires next month.
The second half is better than the first. There are lots of little holes in the plot. Too much works out too well. But it is dramatic.
I found this book difficult to read because so many characters are introduced and it is confusing.
Again crazy ... really? .... but always a Clancy! But I missed some of his best characters. Enjoyed it!
Ryan successfully flips Gerasimov the head of KGB, who has seen the writing on the wall, and fetches Filitov from his confinement using his power as the KGB Chairman.
Unfortunately, two security officers are clued into the operation: Klementi Vladimirovich Vatutin, a Colonel of the KGB's Second Chief Directorate who had arrested and interrogated two cutouts in Filitov's courier chain.
and Sergey Nikolayevch Golovko, an officer of the KGB’s First Chief Directorate (the “Foreign” Directorate).
As the pair pursues Gerasimov and Filitov, Ryan falls from the aircraft to the tarmac, and is taken into custody by an enraged Golovko, who points an (unloaded) gun at Ryan's head.
Het boek handelt over, onder andere, een hoog geplaatste spion, met de codenaam 'Kardinaal', in de Russische Ministerie van Defensie, die al meer dan 30 jaar informatie doorspeelt.
Door zijn hoge status in het ministerie en zijn bekendheid als 'Held van de Sovjet Unie', maken hem bijna onschendbaar.
Terwijl de KGB probeert om de zaak tegen deze spion waterdicht te maken, hoort de CIA van het onderzoek, en in een race tegen de klok proberen ze deze spion te redden voor de KGB hem kan arresteren.
Jack Ryan is doing his thing at the CIA.In a complicated plot, action takes place in Afghanistan where the United States is helping the Afghans resist the Russian invasion.
Ryan is involved with Russian spy Colonel Mikhail Filitov "the Cardinal" who has been giving information to the United States for years but is close to being discovered and must leave Russia.Action abounds in this story, difficult to follow all of the aspects of the story and questions that did the current troubles in Afghanistan begin when we provided those missiles?Interesting to look back to one of Clancy's earlier books and see some of the characters who would have major parts of future Clancy novels.
Given the change in the world since this book was released the plot seems a little dated.
It also relies to some extent on characters from past Clancy novels which may it a little confusing for first time readers.I didn't find the plot as entralling or suspensful as other Clancy works like the Hunt for Red October or Clear and Present Danger.
Unfortunately that is what happens when you write a book based on current events, when those events change your work dates very quickly.
I have already read this book, years ago, however, a friend just gave me the book tape, and as I can not remember how it ended, and I have tons of ironing to do, this book on tape will be welcome. Story, takes place in Russia and Washington, the Americans are spying on the Russians, the Russians are spying on the Americans, the war goes on in Afghanistan and everyone who is spying believes they are doing it for a just cause!In comes Ryan, who tries to sort it all out, for the best of both countries.
have you seen tom clancy posing on the flaps of his more recent books, with his aviator sunglasses and his macho swagger? that is the picture of a guy who bought too much of his own shit. here is another picture of a guy who bought too much of his own shit. these people love flightsuits.
Could've told the story in 300 pgs instead of 700. Too many meaningless characters. Predictable ending. BORING meandering gibberish plot line. Jingoism at its worst. Complete waste of time. Clancy is the most overrated writer of words (can't call him an author) of our time.
Aš stengiausi... Tikrai stengiausi. Bet ketvirtoji Jack'o Ryan'o dalis, ypač lyginant su nuostabia trečiaja - Raudonojo spalio medžiokle - pasirodo, yra tikrų tikriausia nuobodybė. Meh. Diiiiidelis nusivylimas.
This book is very insightful on real espionage. Many of the techniques used in this book are found in many of the nonfiction espionage books. This is one of the most suspenseful books I have ever read.
Awesome. Intriguing. Political. Thrilling. Practical.
