https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46460.Call_for_the_Dead
But soon Fennan is pronounced a suicide, and Fennan's wife Elsa claims that, after his interview with Smiley, her husband was unusually despondent.
Why would a person who intends to commit suicide one a specific night arrange for a reminder call for the morning after?Since this is a first novel, it has its flaws.
For example, Smiley and Police Inspector Mendel are both used as third-person viewpoint characters, but Mendel's first appearance as viewpoint is disorienting, since it is far enough into the novel that we have identified ourselves with Smiley completely, and le Carre has not used any of the novelistic tricks that would make such a transition less confusing and more effective.
Back in his office, Smiley receives a letter posted by Fennan the night before, requesting an urgent meeting that day.
....تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: آوای مرگ؛ نویسنده: جان لوکاره؛ مترجم: خسرو سمیعی؛ تهران، طرح نو، 1373؛ در 191 ص؛ فروست: مجموعه کتابهای سیاه؛ چاپ دوم 1389؛ شابک: 9789644890741؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 مآنگاه که «لیدی آن سرکومب»، پس از پایان جنگ دوم جهانگیر، با «جرج اسمایلی» ازدواج کردند، به دوستانش در «میفر»، که از ازدواج او بسیار شگفت زده شده بودند، درباره ی شوهر خویش گفت که او آدمی است به طور غریبی معمولی.
“Call For the Dead” is the first of 8 books in John Le Carre’s series featuring George Smiley.
This is a classic, and written by an author who knew the ins and outs of national Intelligence and Security first-hand.
This book is a very impressive and intelligent initial offering from an author whose stories have been revered for years, and some of which made it onto the big screen as motion pictures.
I’m not a big fan of spy books or movies .
I think I will continue with the series to see what Mr. George Smiley gets mixed up in next!
Introducing Smiley to the world, this is more of a detective story than a spy story, except that the characters are spies. There are two diversions from what I remember about le Carre's other novels, at the beginning and the end, amounting in each case to explanations of things (telling) that could have been much more effective if included in the narrative (showing). But who am I to criticize le Carre? In between, the story was excellent.
Some of the most elegant spy genre books I've ever read!
Go away and kill" The first novel by John le Carré is also the 1st novel with the iconic character George Smiley.le Carré described George Smiley in “Call for the Dead” (1961) this way: “Short, fat and of a quiet disposition, he appeared to spend a lot of money on really bad clothes, which hung about his squat frame like skin on a shrunken toad.” So a few years before the Ian Fleming creation graced the big screen for the first time his totally opposite started his life in this not so thick novel in a murder mystery & spy mystery.
So if you’re new to le Carré and/or George Smiley, this is definitely the place to start.In many ways, Call for the Dead is a book of its time.
Set in a London I remember from my youth at the start of the Cold War, the novel still has half an eye on the Second World War, when Smiley was a field operative.
I read this immediately after Sarah Waters’ latest, The Little Stranger, and Call for the Dead similarly has as much to say (albeit unconsciously, to a certain extent) about the nature of the class system as it was in this country, barely fifty years ago, as well as the murky world of post-war espionage.
I've been looking for a replacement for good old Reggie Wexford, the police inspector from Ruth Rendell's wonderful series, and here he is, sort of.
Reggie does police investigations; George does spies.
It's a short novel, but complex in its own right.I enjoyed Smiley's trucking about - I can see him plodding up the fogbound streets being ignored by everyone who passes by, with none realizing what a brain is under that old, hoary head - and figuring out what's going on and why.
But I figured out what the 'exchange' was doing eventually.)Anyhow, I'm going to dive into the whole Smiley series and am already reading the second one.:D

http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0112csvDescription: John le Carré classic novels deftly navigate readers through the intricate shadow worlds of international espionage with unsurpassed skill and knowledge, and have earned him -- and his hero, British Secret Service Agent George Smiley, who is introduced in this, his first novel -- unprecedented worldwide acclaim.George Smiley had liked Samuel Fennan, and now Fennan was dead from an apparent suicide.
The very next day, Fennan was found dead with a note by his body saying his career was finished and he couldn't go on.
If I had known that LeCarre's Call for the Dead was the introduction of George Smiley, I would have read this book eons ago.
It is a sad face, and a little bitter - his wife has left him for another man and Smiley has been robbed of his peace.
He also happens to have a brilliant mind and is a key player for British Intelligence.
Anyone who has read Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy and Smiley's People know the capabilities of this unprepossessing little man.
The police are satisfied, the British Intelligence Agency, as well, until Smiley rocks the boat.
Excellent. Cold War politics in London. An apparent suicide uncovers a ring of East German spies. I only discovered Smiley recently and he is becoming a firm favourite.
I've wanted to read the George Smiley books since watching the BBC adaptation of 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy' back in the 1970s.
Everything I have heard about the source material suggests joy and wonder would await and, I’m pleased to report, that’s exactly what I found.Part of what is so marvellous about this book is how John le Carré allows the reader to enter Smiley’s mind and the slow, deliberate machinations as he grapples with complex problems.

After having read some of Le Carre's more recent book, I decided to go back to the beginning and this is the first book that he wrote, and in which he introduced us to his leading character George Smiley.
A nice, tight book that is well written and holds the attention it does a very good job of getting the reader into the initial Cold War espionage genre that Le Carre is a master of.Love the writing style and the characters - oh so very British!
CALL FOR THE DEAD is very good. It easily qualifies for five stars. I am now going to read le Carre's Smiley books in order. When I am done, I may review them as a group.
Le Carre's first novel. An interesting murder mystery.
This was my second John le Carre novel, having read Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy for a book club a few years ago.
It is pretty short, at around 150 pages, and although that meant the plot moved rather quickly, it also made some of the novel appear rather superficial.The book follows spy George Smiley, as he investigates the apparent suicide of a man who was suspected of being a Communist sympathiser.
Although this isn't a typical spy novel, and in my opinion doesn't really resemble Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, I very much enjoyed it.
I thought I should read le Carre because everyone raves about best British novelist of our time (which I'd be happy to believe, far more plausible that person is working in genre than litfic), so I started at the beginning of the Smiley books, not realising it was his first novel. It's still pretty damn good: writes confidently about tradecraft, heavy on character and sordid intrigue, but a few tonal uncertainties and a slightly flat modernist ending. I think I need to read a couple of the more famous ones to get a better idea.
[4.5] Almost as good as The Spy Who Came in from the Cold, and only makes me look forward to reading more.
(Also such a relief to read something so straightforwardly enjoyable after Lolita.) I haven't yet got over my surprise that a thriller could contain such good understanding of emotional states - here especially wariness/ paranoia, trauma and fear, lost love, the wish not to be bothered - perhaps that's part of what distinguishes le Carré.
I love these books at least as much for the sense of the era as for the stories.
Le Carré is one of the greatest writers of thrillers of all time.
At worst, he seems to produce a story that is merely entertaining and engaging.This book—which I believe was his first—reminded me a great deal of Graham Greene's work: It was short, fast-paced, and highly entertaining.
But even in so short a book his talent for weaving intricately tangled webs of espionage asserts itself.
He strings the reader along throughout the narrative dropping little clues here and there, slowly revealing the truth.
Le Carré is an excellent storyteller, and I can whole-heartedly recommend this book to anyone that loves thrillers, and Cold War spy tales.
First in the series for George Smiley, which doesn't live up to what would follow (has nothing on the brilliant 'The spy who came in from the cold').
It's very British, there is a suspicious death (isn't there always), and just who can you trust?.
The tone of the book is very sombre, grey skies hanging over London, lots of frowning and general gloom, the cold war lingering in the background, and it's also intriguing rather than thrilling but never dull.
Sits comfortably away from other crime/mystery novels.
Le Carre stands alone like no other writer of the British spy genre.
The first great George Smiley novel. I read Tinker Tailor a while back after seeing the Sir Alec Guinness Masterpiece Theater bit, and that lead me to want to read the other Smiley Novels. This is just great writing. Le Carre has a command of language and character that you don't generally see in this genre; his digs at class and society are priceless. It's no wonder he is seen almost without argument as the author of the greatest series of spy/thriller/espionage books ever written. Can't wait to read more.
John Le Carre's deftly drawn characters and well informed books on the world of espionage should need no introduction.
Yet despite watching the two BBC miniseries based on the George Smiley character I hadn't read any until I listened to this, the first book in the eight featuring George.
Le Carre's first book is well plotted and paced, gently ambling towards a conclusion.
I did anticipate a couple of plot points but it was still a pleasure to seem them play out.The audio book is excellently narrated with the characters easily distinguished and full of drama.
Hmmm. I've heard so much about John le Carré; perhaps this wasn't a good place to start, but I have a thing about being chronological. (I read The Magician's Nephew first, in the Narnia series. Really.) It's a decent spy-thriller/mystery, but it didn't have anything else that got its hooks into me: Smiley was the only potentially interesting character, and he spent a lot of the time sick in bed... The other characters honestly blurred into each other.The mystery itself is straight-forward: I figured it out somewhere before page fifty. Not all the details, perhaps, but the basic outline.Overall, meh.
This is the first George Smiley novel and introduces us to the characters which, as a reader, you will come to love.
His ex wife, the beautiful Lady Ann Seacomb, caused surprise and gossip when they married - she nicknamed him 'Toad' and, unlike a Bond character, who always gets the girl, she leaves him for a Cuban motor racing driving.Despite Smiley's squat and unprepossing looks though, he has something far more attractive - intelligence in abundance, as well as great humanity and sensitivity to others.
A really intelligent novel and a great introduction to the Smiley books.
The reader's suspicion should fall pretty quickly on the very suspicious (view spoiler)[Mrs Fennan (hide spoiler)], but the details: the hows, whys and wherefores are what keep you reading as le Carré expertly leads us and Smiley through his investigation as well as managing to provide more depth to the character history presented in the first chapter.The parallels of Smiley's and his wife's story – they start the book separated but at the end she appears to be interested in returning to him; compared to Fennan's and his wife's story – they start the story together and happy, but you start to realise that their relationship hid a lot of misunderstanding and mistrust – show a lot more to this novel than just a spy novel.
My first John Le Carre book and I'm wondering why.
George Smiley, the world's most famous secret agent, is ready for retirement and his recent divorce and all his years in the service have taken their toll.
John establishes brilliant and compelling thrillers that has elevated the author and genre to literary excellence.
The world of espionage from the author's own years in the British Foreign Service contains heroics, tattered ideas, convenient treachery and a world where good and evil exist side by side.
I will be sure to get the rest of Le Carre's books to read.
John Le Carre is often considered to be the master of spy fiction.
However, that book appears in the middle of a series of novels dealing with the British Intelligence Agency and its main protagonist George Smiley.
I read that novel and felt that I was starting the story from the middle.
Therefore, I decided to start the “George Smiley” series from the beginning.The first story is A Call for the Dead.
This is nice short introduction to the series which introduces the main protagonist George Smiley and offers a bit of background of the character.
