What does the brain matter,” said Lady Rosseter, getting up, “compared with the heart?”I didn't realize, until the final page, at its heart, MRS. DALLOWAY is a love story. I absolutely loved this book. Mrs. Dalloway is a complex, compelling novel. It is wrongly described as a portrait of a day in the life of Clarissa Dalloway; this is not correct. Mrs. Dalloway is the hub that connects the spokes, the characters of Woolf's novel, but there is no main character. What MRS. DALLOWAY is, is a wonderful study of its principal characters. The novel enters into the consciousness of the people it takes as it subjects, creating a powerful effect. With Mrs. Dalloway Woolf created a visceral and unyielding vision of madness and a haunting descent into its depths.Mrs. Dalloway follows a set of characters as they go about their lives on a normal day. The eponymous character, Clarissa Dalloway, does simple things: she buys some flowers, walks in a park, is visited by an old friend and throws a party. She speaks to a man who was once in love with her, and who still believes that she settled by marrying her politician husband. She talks to a female friend with whom she was once in love. Then, in the final pages of the book, she hears about a poor lost soul who threw himself from a doctor's window onto a line of railings.Septimus Smith. Shell-shocked after his experiences in World War I, he is a so-called madman, who hears voices. He was once in love with a fellow soldier named Evans--a ghost who haunts him throughout the novel. His infirmity is rooted in his fear and his repression of this forbidden love. Finally, tired of a world that he believes is false and unreal, he commits suicide.The two characters whose experiences form the core of the novel--Clarissa and Septimus--share a number of similarities. In fact, Woolf saw Clarissa and Septimus as more like two different aspects of the same person, and the linkage between the two is emphasized by a series of stylistic repetitions and mirrorings. Unbeknownst to Clarissa and Septimus, their paths cross a number of times throughout the day--just as some of the situations in their lives followed similar paths.Clarissa and Septimus were in love with a person of their own sex, and both repressed their loves because of their social situations. Even as their lives mirror, parallel and cross--Clarissa and Septimus take different paths in the final moments of the novel. Both are existentially insecure in the worlds they inhabit--one chooses life, while the other chooses death.Woolf's stream of consciousness style allows readers into the minds and hearts of her characters. She also incorporates a level of psychological realism that Victorian novels were never able to achieve. The everyday is seen in a new light: internal processes are opened up in her prose, memories compete for attention, thoughts arise unprompted, and the deeply significant and the utterly trivial are treated with equal importance. Woolf's prose is also enormously poetic. She has the very special ability to make the ordinary ebb and flow of the mind sing.Mrs. Dalloway is linguistically inventive, but the novel also has an enormous amount to say about its characters. Woolf handles their situations with dignity and respect. As she studies Septimus and his deterioration into madness, we see a portrait that draws considerably from Woolf's own experiences. Woolf's stream of consciousness-style leads us to experience madness. We hear the competing voices of sanity and insanity.Woolf's vision of madness does not dismiss Septimus as a person with a biological defect. She treats the consciousness of the madman as something apart, valuable in itself, and something from which the wonderful tapestry of her novel could be woven.
Virginia Woolf I hate you. There I said it. Some authors you just don’t get on with, and Woolf is right down the bottom of my shit list. I’ve got quite a few reasons why:Artistic slayingSo there’s a trend with each and every new artistic movement which involves pissing all over the one that came before it. The newness asserts its dominance by destroying the old; it’s happened many times over history in all forms of artifice, whether it be literature, music, paintings or media in today’s society. The point is Virginia Woolf is a bitch. Here’s what she says about my beloved Jane Austen:“Anyone who has the temerity to write about Jane Austen is aware of [two] facts: first, that of all great writers she is the most difficult to catch in the act of greatness; second, that there are twenty-five elderly gentlemen living in the neighbourhood of London who resent any slight upon her genius as if it were an insult to the chastity of their aunts”-  from  A Room of One's Own.And then this:“With their simple tools and primitive materials, it might be said, Fielding did well and Jane Austen even better, but compare their opportunities with ours! Their masterpieces certainly have a strange air of simplicity” -from  Modern Fiction. Pffft…..Is this woman for real? Don't worry Austen, I've got your back. Her Style (or lack thereof) So Virginia Woolf is one of the defining authors of the modernist movement; she wrote the manifesto and she wrote some of the novels. Some would even argue that she is modernism, but is that a good thing? As a cultural movement, I find modernism slightly disturbing. I’m a romantic at heart, I believe in the idealism of Percy Shelley, Wordsworth’s vison of nature and Coleridge’s imagination; thus, I feel like I am naturally predisposed to react negatively towards the movement. Is this reader response theory at work? Yes it is, I’ve warned you I’m incredibly bias towards this. It focuses on a more suburban way of life, and analyses the relationship between humans and the city. Therefore, we have pages and pages of material in which the characters wonder round the streets looking at random things. They observe the sights and they observe each other in a stream of mundane consciousness. They remark on nature and almost, almost, compare it to this new modern life. And this is where I throw my book at the wall. How could the two even be put together in a paragraph? The words Virginia Woolf uses to describe these things are ill at ease in my mind: they don’t belong here:“Beauty, the world seemed to say. And as if to prove it (scientifically) wherever he looked at the houses, at the railings, at the antelopes stretching over the palings, beauty sprang instantly. To watch a leaf quivering in the rush of air was an exquisite joy. Up in the sky swallows swooping, swerving, flinging themselves in and out, round and round, yet always with perfect control as if elastics held them; and the flies rising and falling; and the sun spotting now this leaf, now that, in mockery, dazzling it with soft gold in pure good temper; and now again some chime (it might be a motor horn) tinkling divinely on the grass stalks—all of this, calm and reasonable as it was, made out of ordinary things as it was, was the truth now; beauty, that was the truth now. Beauty was everywhere.” Is city life natural? Can we really describe a city in these terms? Woolf proposes to capture the real essence of life; this passage here isn’t life: it feels false. Who walks through a city sees a leaf and is enamoured by its beauty. No one. Step outside the city and experience life in the true Wordsworth fashion, visit the lakes see the trees, and see real nature. Granted, the Romantics made it sound sublime, but they captured the heart of it: they didn’t combine city life, with its connotations of ordinariness and industry, with the real essence of nature.  Real life is dull So Woolf attempts (cough cough) to capture real life, modernism was said to be more real than realism. This isn’t some exciting plot or twisted love story or gothic drama: this is a book about a woman who hosts a very dull party. She walks round the city a few times making some disjointed descriptions, ponders a shell shocked victim, realises she never fulfilled her repressed lesbian desires, notices that the prime minister is in fact an ordinary man (shock horror- hold onto your seats!) and that’s it. So this new modern thing then, is it good? In the case of this book, no, it’s not. It takes more than a rejection of literary norms to establish greatness. I’ve read modernists next since this one and I’ve actually enjoyed them. Sometimes I feel like Woolf didn’t know quite what she wanted when she wrote this, I feel like other writers adhere closer to her manifesto than she does herself. And, well, they don’t attack Austen.
Virginia Woolf set out to write an unconventional novel and succeeded, although since she wrote, we have read so many unconventional novels that it seems tame. In her introduction to the edition I read, Maureen Howard writes: “If ever there was a work conceived in response to the state of the novel, a consciously modern novel, it is Mrs. Dalloway.” She may have been influenced by Ulysses because all the action occurs in one day. Church bells mark significant events. In turn this marking of the day influenced The Hours, a book based on Woolf’s life, by Michael Cunningham. But unlike in Joyce’s work, this is not an ordinary day. True, it centers on what we would now call a cocktail party – Mrs. Dalloway lived for those and hosted them frequently – but it’s also the day when a former flame of hers (the fire on his part, not hers) returns from five years in India. And it’s also a day when one of the characters we follow commits suicide. His doctor arrives at the party and announces this to everyone as soon as he’s inside the door – now there’s a downer!Through her reflections and that of several other characters we learn the details of Mrs. Dalloway’s life. She’s 52, pale, a bit sickly, attractive enough but not beautiful. We learn of her husband, a nice man, a government bureaucrat whose career has peaked – he will never be a Minister. She worries about him having a business lunch today with another woman friend of hers and Mrs. Dalloway was not invited. Of her daughter, she worries that she is being “unduly influenced” by the religion of her female tutor (Catholicism?). And of course she worries about meeting the old flame – he still loves her after 30 years, a marriage and various affairs. True love or arrested development? The book, published in 1925, is also a time capsule of daily life in London in the early post-war years. (WW I of course.) A time when horses had been replaced by cars. As we follow her around town in her preparations we see the hustle and bustle of the city, the grocers, the shop girls, the crazies in the park. A good book. It makes you think about life and death. You can’t ask for more than that. Her language is also fun. When is the last time you were “whelmed?” Not overwhelmed – just plain old whelmed. What’s a Holland bag? Even on the web, apparently no one knows.
THE TERMINATOR 2 OF DOILEYSI can see why people hate Mrs-Dalloway-the-book (there are a fair few this-is-so-boring-I-lit-myself-on-fire kind of one/two star reviews) because Mrs Dalloway-the-book is the Terminator 2 of doileys, ribbons, and fetching hats, the Die Hard 4 of a sunny day in London, 1923, the Apocalypto of curtains and place mats and memories of moonlight boating parties; and the Transformers of wondering if you married the right person. You have to get into Mrs Woolf’s style, which is a nimsywimsymimsy breathless-hush exalted stream of consciousness thing, all the sentences, if that’s what they are, make zigzags like mad flies, they each contain at least 29 commas, the pages zag randomly or not from one character’s brain to another (did you ever see Slacker? Like that, but more British), and as usual in these high falutin affairs, there’s zero story. You want a story? Lowbrow oik! Oh, okay, she’s having a party, and a guy is having problems from shellshock, and then she has the party and people come, rich types. End. Don’t look for anything else.STUCK UP SELF-ADMIRING TORY COWI can also see why you’d hate Mrs Dalloway herself, too, stuck-up self-admiring Tory cow. For the first 50 pages I was really hating on her doileys and her oh-gosh-I-was-so-clever-to-marry-the-right-man untrammelled egotism. Oh, little me, and all of this sparkly stuff, how lucky and deserving I am! She’s more than a little repulsive. But of course not to the people in her life, they’re all like oh Clarissa, let me fondle your doileys. (Except one, hah! But she’s ugly as sin, and a religious nutjob, so, you know, those sorry types are bound not to be in love with Clarissa. )[not a good picture - Mrs D would think this was VULGAR]Mrs Woolf winds her famous slippery metaphysical twistical delirious poetical lyrical ecstatic style through the minds of around six main characters who orbit each other during this one June day, a solar system of social engagement. What you have going on is 1923-style 360 degree feedback appraisals! Yes, that intolerable oppressive management tool of the 21st century is right here, as all the characters relentlessly judge each other and are judged in turn, and most, even dear Clarissa, come in for some industrial strength sneering by their nearest and dearest, they all condescend and look down upon each other, and then they flip and start making googoo eyes, it’s all a bit emotionally high-strung and vapid. Anyway this lot are my class enemy (they haven’t gone away) (but also they did create 90% of the great art, or pay the artists to create it, so I am a bit conflicted about the upper class) - but I was kind of hoping there would be a Russian communist with a bomb to blow them all to buggery when they all got to the party but it’s not that sort of novel. Instead it’s actuallyTHE TAO OF WOOLFThe warp and the weft, the weep and the woof, life itself, never so well expressed – here’s Clarissa:She feared time itself, the dwindling of life; how year by year her share was sliced, how little the margin that remained was capable any longer of stretching, of absorbing, as in the youthful years, the colours, salts, tones of existence, so that she filled the room she entered, and felt often as she stood hesitating one moment on the threshold of her drawing-room, an exquisite suspense, such as might stay a diver before plunging while the sea darkens and brightens beneath him, and the waves which threaten to break but only gently split their surface, roll and conceal and encrust as they just turn over the weeds with pearl.That’s it – that’s this novelONLY FOUR STARS - HUH?I have to admit that quite a bit of the brain-delving and soul-surfing (and there is nothing here which isn’t) made no literal sense to me, I just could not follow what was being said & would love to ask a major Dalloway fan exactly what this or that passage was on about. So it does - towards the end - slightly turn into exquisite Woolfian background music. It is for that reason I cannot grant the elusive fifth star.THE WANDERING ROCKSOne year before Mrs D, Joyce published Ulysses, and VW had a copy. One of the chapters in Ulysses is The Wandering Rocks in which several characters peregrinate through Dublin, and Joyce streams their consciousnesses, jumping from person to person. And of course, like Ulysses, Mrs D happens all on one day. And Bloomsday and Dallowday are set in capital cities in the month of June. Other than that, VW’s version of the interior monologue is completely utterly different.DAVID BOWIE IMPLIEDAt one point a random young woman down in London for a job thinks she’ll remember this day, her first day in the big city. Fifty years from now she’ll still remember it, she thinks. So it being 1923 in the novel, that means she’ll be remembering it in June 1973 while Life on Mars by David Bowie or Skweeze Me Pleeze Me by Slade plays from a nearby radio. There’s an odd thought.WOOLFISH GRINVW is even, rarely, funny - a young man falls for his English tutor :He thought her beautiful, believed her impeccably wise; dreamed of her, wrote poems to her, which, ignoring the subject, she corrected in red ink.
My full review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, can be found on my blog.Although famous for focusing upon a single day in the life of one woman, Mrs. Dalloway in fact ricochets from one interior life to the next, collapsing the present into the past as it does so. The novel is far less interested in defining Clarissa Dalloway as an individual than in exploring the many-sided effects she has on an assortment of others; by the end of the narrative, Woolf has offered her readers not a neat portrait of a personality but several impressionistic sketches of the same subject. Woolf's multifaceted characterization successfully thwarts attempts to sum up Mrs. Dalloway or to reduce her to her relationship with any one person. Likewise, the author's elaborate but accessible prose resists careless reading, forcing her readers to approach the short novel deliberately. Mrs. Dalloway was Woolf's first success at writing experimental long fiction, and it remains the perfect introduction to her mature work.
It’s been a while since I last read Mrs Dalloway. I’d always had it down as her third best book, but falling a fair way short of The Waves and To the Lighthouse. Therefore I was surprised by just how much I loved and admired it this time round. It’s probably her most popular novel – because it’s more intimate, more personal and sprightly and warm than her other novels. What’s most brilliant about it is the easy fluid way she makes of each passing moment a ruffled reservoir of the inner life of her characters. Every moment alters the composition, the ebb and flow of memory and identity. And everything, very subtly, is experienced in relation to the inevitability of death. It’s a deeply elegiac novel and one of the finest celebrations of the beauty to be gleaned in the passing moment I can think of. She does, now and again, get carried away with her metaphors. Extending them until they bear little relation with their starting point, like shadows that have no source. In fact so epic and sweeping are her metaphors sometimes – usually when she’s writing about/making fun of men - that you think she might have had a copy of The Iliad on her desk while writing this. And men get a pretty rough deal on the whole. There’s probably no richer book about London in the history of literature. I remember when I was a skinny nineteen year old thing walking about London and how Woolf’s presence, through her prose, was almost like a medium permeating the squares of Bloomsbury, the bridges and churches and parks of the city. She added an entire layer to my experience of the hidden riches of London. At one point Clarissa muses, “It ended in a transcendental theory which, with her horror of death, allowed her to believe, or say that she believed (for all her scepticism), that since our apparitions, the part of us which appears, are so momentary compared with the other, the unseen part of us, which spreads wide, the unseen might survive, be recovered somehow attached to this person or that, or even haunting certain places, after death. Perhaps - perhaps.” Well, no question, Virginia still haunts certain places –pretty much every London location she writes about in this novel.
There's nothing going on in this book.That is to say, to be honest, it does nothing happening. The fact is that we are prepared there and participates in a vague social evening. This is not insignificant, perhaps, but still we admit that it is not too far from it.Yet it is in complete disregard of the emptiness of the romantic frame of this masterpiece, because what happens there really worth, it's a real literary revolution!It is because there has already been a time when women did not have the right to write! As crazy as it may seem today, they then had to hide behind their publications to the name of any man or take a pseudonym. And even when the unjust prohibition disappeared, writing has continued to be dominated by trends in the linearity and the logic masculine.And now suddenly, abruptly (at least for my humble self), we find here the writing of a woman unfolding as it exists and actually believe in her femininity. We spotted a thought that staring us in the face, that makes us dream, which also bothers us sometimes, but always better to bounce and revive the following passage in our interest advantage. Everywhere, the thread intertwine without getting lost, or finally, maybe they can get lost, but who knows if they lose nothing by waiting? After all, it follows no Mrs Dalloway only a few hours and it follows only in so far as really this is achieved.The whole had completely enchanted, entertained and captivated me. I felt like talking to a pretty smart woman, pungent imagination, irony and playfulness that does not leave me time to place one.
Virginia Woolf made me feel like a drunken gardener, a diver on the verge of the bends, a foot stamping child, a foal tripping over its own legs trying desperately to get to its mother. And you know, I really don’t like feeling like any of these things. What is worse, she set up a buffet of champagne, mimosas, fruit and jam, white table cloths fluttering on a patio in the sunshine and light breezes, let me settle myself down to watch a perfectly civilized game of tennis between old pals from Eton, and then walked up and punched every last one of those versions of me right in the face.She then had the utter nerve to sit herself down right next to me (us?) and proceed, in the manner of one who can say “my dear,” all the way down your spine, to tell me all the layers and shelves and depths of everything that I am about in a language that she knew I could only half understand with how fast she was speaking it. Moreover, she was talking in a personalized dialect that she just knew I would love and that I would hate to be left out of. On.. and on.. and on, talking to everyone I love and respect as they walk on by, smiling in perfect accord with them as they waved back and responded to her in the same language that she kept me prisoner listening to.A great chunk of this book was like (to go with my resentful gardener) seeing a light under the ground of a frozen over garden, faintly, but unmistakably there, and spending all day hacking at that damn spot, needing to see what’s under it, trying with spades, hoes, kitchen knives, fucking machetes if I have to... and the ground just staring right back as solid as ever while I swore at it and called its mother names. It seemed as though I merely glazed over the spot rather than dug into it. I felt some warmth from the light, but never anything I could really keep ahold of. Nothing seemed to work. Then, suddenly (to shift to my impatient child), little lights started to appear through the cracks, in short, isolated bursts, in a language that I could fully understand, relate to, delight in, without any translation and right away. Just little things: like how the housewife Clarissa Dalloway describes a man as being “perfectly upholstered,” when she approves of his looks, the way anyone around you becomes “people,” when you’re not at home with your own situation, and Peter Walsh’s changing and intimate relations with the tolling of a clock that suit his own wandering, uncertain mind. I finished the book once, getting no farther than this. I felt curiously exhausted, bewildered, overwhelmed, like (to shift to my diver) it was my first dive and I’d come up too fast, on the verge of giving myself the bends in my need to reach the surface, to be done with the dive, to say I’d completed it. I put it down for days, trying to figure out what I thought of it, coming up with only confusion. I didn’t know what to say about it- I wasn’t sure I had anything to say except things about ribbons and lace, flowers in bowls, birds of paradise clustering in the windows. Stupid things, surface things- a picture of England after the Great War, an upper crust lady and a solider with PTSD before they knew about PTSD, the character of the English, the effect of Empire, lesbian overtones, the overbearing presence of the past: The Way We Were. And yet, I really thought there was something else there. I kept reading those sentences over and over again because of something.. more.So I decided to start over again, and see what I could see. I read more slowly, tried to take pressure off of myself… and this time around, the cracks opened far wider. I felt like I could take a wobbling step without laughing at myself and I was able to see this:”Take me with you, Clarissa thought impulsively, as if he were starting upon some great voyage; and then, next moment, it was as if the five acts of a play that had been very exciting and moving were now over and she had lived a lifetime in them and had run away, had lived with Peter, and now it was over.Now it was time to move, and as a woman gathers her things together, her cloak, her gloves, her opera-glasses, and gets up to go out of the theatre into the street, she rose from the sofa and went to Peter.”And, gloriously, this: “One might fancy that day, the London day, was just beginning. Like a woman who had slipped off her print dress and white apron to array herself in blue and pearls, the day changed, put off stuff, took gauze, changed to evening, and with the same sigh of exhilaration that a woman breathes, tumbling petticoats to the floor, it too shed dust, heat, colour; the traffic thinned; motor cars, tinkling, darting, succeeded the lumber of vans; and here and there along the thick foliage of the squares an intense light hung. I resign, the evening seemed to say, as it paled and faded above the battlements and prominences, moulded, pointed, of hotel, flat and block of shops, I fade, she was beginning, I disappear, but London would have none of it…”… more and more passages started to stick out for me, to give me the gifts they were meant to the first time around. Virginia talked to me in the kindest way possible now, finally, about the way the world could be experienced, if you only looked hard enough. She showed me what it was all about, making every part of life special again. She told me things about what it was to continue to live and live all those years, and the marks that it leaves on your soul- the space that it takes up in your brain- and how could it not? I saw these people living in the present, past, future all at once, trying to take it all in with all of that in mind and still to make it down the street without stopping dead. (“Nonsense, nonsense, she cried to herself!”) I just loved her depiction of the interruptions of life- the curbs, the traffic, the needs in a shop, the entrances, the too soon exits, the car backfiring, and of course, those splendid, gloriously depicted clocks that won’t leave you alone in London. I’ve always loved parentheses- I’ve always been a person who couldn’t get by without them (declarative sentences never say it all, do they?), and Virginia understands me, she knows how that is- sometimes the parenthetical is the most important. Virginia understands. She always knows how it is, she knows it for every possible person that you are or could want to know, and she’ll tell you, even if maybe at first the way she expresses it makes it seem like something you can't understand. For instance, poor Septimus. I found his sections too flowery, too clichéd and lofty the first time around- his phrases about beauty shut down my ability to receive it. I just couldn’t get past it then. Then I tried again, and Septimus became anything but frou-frou- the tragedy of his perception of the world, the depth of his feeling felt like it was choking me to death. Virginia wasn’t trying to insult me- she was trying to show me what I was missing. She got under my skin, did Virginia. I decided that I was willing to make a fool of myself again to try to get something out of it- and I am incandescently happy that I did. It was 200 pages of her telling me  “Only connect,”  over and over again. She showed me once again how beautiful the idea of the tapestry of life really is- how we’re all interconnected, the idea that something of ourselves reverberates on forever. I saw the Fates spinning, sewing, snipping- sometimes using the same piece of string to form, to inexorably connect the unlikeliest of people. We should never try to tear out the threads the Fates give us. The people who do will only end up creating a bloody battle out of what should have been a party scene to be hung in the drawing room. Clarissa Dalloway is an unlikely heroine, but thus she is nonetheless. She is shallow, uneducated, vain, even “cold” as many of her detractors claim. And yet, she goes down to the underworld every other moment and manages to surface and visit her mother with a smile upon her face, not caring to trouble her in her old age with her silly worries and sorrows. She said “no,” once to life, all those years ago- and it is all she thinks about. She lives her life running in the other direction, within the bounds that she can, if only people could see it. I loved her fiery loathing of what she believed Miss Kilman represented, her ultimate rejection (if understanding) of Septimus’ chosen ending, the ‘offerings’ of her parties. She is Molly Bloom writ in everyday language: Yes I will yes…. I finished the book again in utter awe with her. Perhaps it is that I am towards the beginning of my own life, and I see Clarissa as having passed over a stretch of land that is still an unknown country to me- a country I still believe I haven’t the map to. This book might be streamofconsciousness but don’t be fooled into falling in and trying to swim the river forever. I felt like I was drowning, numb, deprived of depth perception after attempting to swallow this whole that first time. This is a book best taken in small samples when you feel you're truly ready for more- pieces that won't fill you up too much to appreciate just what it is that you’re tasting. Trust me. Virginia will take care of you. Just let the woman speak.
I read Mrs. Dalloway sometime between "The Hours" film was released and college (2002-2003), knowing pretty well what it aimed at--to chronicle life as it is lived, with plenty of characters to populate the sphere that’s immediately around the titular protagonist, the hopeless hostess of parties; all their thoughts at once made clear and later muddled with the novel’s own moving train of consciousness. This time around I found that the most difficult portion of Mrs. Dalloway is its middle section, after the Warren Smiths meet with the physician & Lady Bruton is introduced, & then there is this cavalcade of characters along with all of their inner musings. Sometimes Virginia Woolf uses “he” & “she,” & one knows not who on the stage she is precisely referring to. (It could be said that the emotion within each individual defies exactly who that character is. It is the emotion that’s important--the melancholic mood which at times may strike us all.)The all-knowing narrator in Mrs. Dalloway is like the great revolving eye which transcendentalists like Emerson and Thoreau often mention. It knows all, but it also rides the collective wave of thought and feeling itself (in Woolf that feeling often deals with growing older, dying). Difficult to put into words, it is clear what it was that (the overrated) IAN MCEWAN tried (and failed) to emulate: Woolf’s sense of impending devastation (In Saturday, another day-long narrative, an Englishman is surprised to see a fallen aeroplane alight in the morning sky… just as the denizens of England receive a fiery emblem: that of the Royal figure inside the coach in the streets of London) and in that grand English tradition: the utmost repression of the individual’s wants (in On Chesil Beach Mc Ewan’s thesis is not unlike the following: “Not for years have they spoken of it; which, he thought… is the greatest mistake in the world. The time comes when it can’t be said; one’s too shy to say it... ‘I love you.’”). Confusing--it is meant to be like a wave washing over you as you stand alone; a delicate little flower before the awesome tide.
A few introductory comments on my rating and review:My rating is reflective of my experience with this book and not the actual impact this book has had on literature and other people over the years. Sometimes when I read a book I don’t like, I cannot understand why others like it either. That is not the case here – it is very easy for me to tell why others would like this book and I think it was very interesting at its core; it is just the delivery that did not work for me.I hesitate to actually say that I read this. I really only grasped about 15% of what was going on during the book as the randomness of the events in the plot had me confused and I kept daydreaming in the middle of it. It is only through internet searches after I was done that I was able to pull all the events together coherently.Now, on to the review:I think the story was very interesting. Also, from what I have read about Virginia Woolf, it is very reflective of her life experiences. But, I went low with my star rating because the stream of consciousness delivery had me lost and disinterested most of the time. As mentioned above – if it wasn’t for Google, I may not have fully understood what transpired. I did this as audio and I am glad I did because I am not sure I could have stuck with it if I was reading it.As a famous classic on many must read lists, I get it. But, it is one of those that I think not a lot of people are going to get into. So, be warned before you go out to choose a classic and hope that Mrs. Dalloway is the one for you: a great story but rambling, stream of consciousness delivery has to be something you don’t mind.
Of Life and Death, Verbs and NounsI expected this novel to be difficult. However, it wasn't difficult at all. It was an enormous pleasure.I was struck by the preponderance of  verbs . The novel might happen in the head of Clarissa Dalloway or the other characters, but they are observing activity and their thoughts reflect it.It is more dynamic than passive or self-conscious or self-reflective.It was less a stream of consciousness, than a consciousness of life as a stream or a number of streams,
Of Life and Death, Verbs and NounsI expected this novel to be difficult. However, it wasn't difficult at all. It was an enormous pleasure.I was struck by the preponderance of   verbs. The novel might happen in the head of Clarissa Dalloway or the other characters, but they are observing activity and their thoughts reflect it.It is more dynamic than passive or self-conscious or self-reflective.It was less a stream of consciousness, than a consciousness of life as a stream or a number of streams, rolling and tumbling and flowing in the direction of some great expanse, the ocean, an ocean of possibilities, perhaps even a party.The word "life" is a noun, but in my opinion, the Life we live is a bundle of verbs. Life is the vitality and vibrancy of the verbs we inject into it. Life is what you "do" during the course of your time on earth. All the large and little things you do. Life is Eros, a life force, which can be juxtaposed in Freudian terms with Death (the absence of life) or Thanatos.Perhaps Clarissa Dalloway represents the vitality of Eros, while her "double", Septimus, represents Thanatos.Whatever, the two coexist in the novel and in each of us.How our lives turn out depends on how we accommodate their coexistence.We can let them fight or allow them to dance."A Dance to the Music of Time"Ultimately, Virginia Woolf's novel felt to me like a dance, a progressive waltz, perhaps between Life and Death, Eros and Thanatos.It seemed to be even more worthy of the description "A Dance to the Music of Time" than Anthony Powell's work.Here is a description of the Poussin painting of that name from the first novel in the sequence, "A Question of Upbringing", part of which could apply to "Mrs Dalloway":"These classical projections, and something from the fire, suddenly suggested Poussin's scene in which the Seasons, hand in hand and facing outward, tread in rhythm to the notes of the lyre that the winged and naked greybeard plays. "The image of Time brought thoughts of mortality: of human beings, facing outward like the Seasons, moving hand in hand in intricate measure, stepping slowly, methodically sometimes a trifle awkwardly, in evolutions that take recognisable shape: or breaking into seemingly meaningless gyrations, while partners disappear only to reappear again, once more giving pattern to the spectacle: unable to control the melody, unable, perhaps, to control the steps of the dance."I started to gyrate as I read on, then unable to control the melody, unable to control the steps of the dance, I grew dizzy, and slowly I started to remember something that happened a long, long time ago...The Call of DutyEach long table in the dining room seated 20 people, ten aside facing each other, as you'd expect, just like the year before, only now there would be some faces gone and some new faces expected, you wouldn’t really know who until everybody had returned from the end of term vacation and taken their position, some sitting in the same place, some moving to fill the gaps, some leaving a space to be filled by someone new.There were a dozen or so at their usual table by the time Ian arrived for dinner, he looked up and down the table, until he saw six familiar faces, a hint of recognition on his face, his friends were all towards one end of the table, away from the front doors, although nobody occupied the two end seats, they had been left for latecomers.To the left of his friends, a group of first year students were sitting in the middle of the table, not yet known or identified by names, so Ian pulled out a seat at the end of the table and prepared to sit down, gently lifting his chair so as not to make a sound and disturb the conversation that was in progress, chatter, chatter, talk, talk, this is what I did on my holidays, Keith had obtained work as a legal clerk, Ginny had spent the whole time at her parents’ beach house on the South Coast, Becky had returned to Switzerland and worked in a strawberry jam factory, making tiny woodchips that were supposed to replace the seeds that dissolved in the acidic process of making the jam.An olive, almost dark, complexioned woman walked up and asked if she could sit on the chair opposite Ian, he nodded yes, not knowing who she was or whether she already knew his friends, she had not been in college last year, while everybody else reacted enthusiastically, yes, sure, of course, thanks for joining us, Judy, Becky said, have you met everybody here, this is Ian, she said, I’ve heard so much about this Ian, Judy replied with a smile, in her Eastern European accent, he couldn’t work out where it was from, though it was not as guttural as German, he stood and shook Judy’s hand, almost chivalrously, although there was no need for chivalry yet, at least, nothing to be chivalrous about, these days, apart of course from the presence of this charming woman, which was more than enough, but Ian was already smiling, he liked this new Judy.She answered Ian’s many eager questions politely, until finally he had ascertained that she was Hungarian, and that her father was the Hungarian Ambassador, from Communist Hungary, as it was then, she was moving into college for her second last year while she worked on her honours thesis in French Literature and wanted to be closer to the French Department and away from the temptations of diplomatic parties and constant socializing, as if college life would be any less demanding, even though she loved that life, she was diligent in her studies, she wanted to be a writer, a publisher or a diplomat herself, and Ian had found all of this out while he deftly worked away at his roast lamb and three vegetables, it was a Sunday night before the first day of the new term, and there was always a roast of some sort.Some of their friends finished their meals and left during the conversation, though Ian continually brought the chit chat back to Judy, as if they were the only ones present, you could tell he was infatuated already, well, Becky could, she was more alert to these things, her father was the Australian Ambassador to Switzerland, it wasn’t a big deal, Switzerland was only a small country anyway, it wasn’t even discussed amongst their friends, but they had nevertheless gravitated towards each other, informally forming a group of diplomatic children, Ian being the odd one out, the son of a banker, though his ambition was to be a diplomat, and if unsuccessful in that ambition, to at least get a few foreign affairs under his belt, he had a taste for the exotic, almost as if he was seeking a life raft upon which to escape from the routine life that awaited him in Australia in those days.Judy was the first one of the remaining group to rise from the table, but as she did so, she reached into her handbag and took out four small envelopes, they contained invitations, each of them inscribed with someone’s name in neat blue fountain pen, though not the script that was familiar to Australians at the time, even her writing was exotic, she gave three to Ian’s remaining friends, and then, looking Ian in the eyes, handed him one, too, I would be delighted if you would come to my room for drinks on Tuesday night, any time between 8 and 11, Ian looked at the envelope and saw that it already bore his name, Ian Graye, he still has that envelope somewhere, with his other love letters and curios, Judy said, I knew I would meet you sooner or later, so I took the liberty of making out an invitation for you, what if you hadn’t liked me, he asked, well, in that case, I would have wasted an envelope and some writing paper, she said, not a great loss, but I didn’t think there was much chance of that.No sooner were the envelopes circulated than Judy left to return to her room, Ian rising almost immediately afterwards, looking at his watch and saying, well, duty calls, Becky spotted the glint in his eye and laughed, you mean, Judy calls, and she laughed again, as if she had just read his fortune in a teacup.The next two days, Ian didn’t see Judy or Becky or Keith or Virginia, because other friends saw him enter the dining room and asked him to join them, each time introducing him to first year students that they had just met, so Tuesday night came around quickly, although first he had to have some drinks in the Union Bar with some other students from his Political Science class, he had intended to finish up around 10pm and return to college for the last hour of the party, but it was 10:30 when he looked at his watch and realised he was going to be late, it was totally dark when he got outside, there was no moon and the stars were obscured by clouds, he walked quickly, anxiously, embarrassed, the crushed granite surface of the footpath crunching underfoot, his heart started to beat faster and a droplet of sweat formed on his temple, he was almost out of breath by the time he arrived at Judy’s door, giving the impression that he had hurried to be there, even though he was close to three hours late and had nearly, rudely, missed the party altogether, still as Judy was farewelling some of her other guests, she greeted Ian with a kiss on either cheek in the European fashion, and he wished that it had been his lips, I didn’t think you were going to attend my party, she said, half reproachful, half delighted that he had actually turned up, he said, there was no way I would have missed it, I’m sorry that another duty called, she poured him a glass of Bulls Blood, Egri Bikaver, and sat him on the chair next to her writing desk, by this time they were the only ones left in the room, and she sat on her bed, from this time on, she said, I expect to be your first duty, Ian placed his glass on the desk, having had only one sip, not that it was his first and only drink of the night, and he went and sat on the bed next to her and, perhaps too boldly, he passed his right hand under her black bob, and then their lips touched, for the first, but not the last, time.A moment later, she pulled back, not by way of rebuff, by any means, and commanded him gently, but still firmly, tell me, what is the name of your most important duty now?It is Judy, he said.And there she was.SOUNDTRACK:Jimmy Smith - "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CG0r80...Herbie Hancock - "Watermelon Man"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p4ASTM...Bill Lee [Composer] - "Mo' Better Blues"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jJTKCm...That's Denzel Washington lip-synching the trumpet in the Spike Lee film of the same name.The band comprises trumpeter Terence Blanchard, Branford Marsalis on tenor and soprano, pianist Kenny Kirkland, bassist Robert Hurst, and drummer Jeff "Tain" Watts.Di Ienno, Di Bella, Mori Trio - "Mo' Better Blues"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ahH2I...
Okay, so this is very fabulous novel and in my opinion one of the Greatest, despite the fact that for me it was not exactly a breeze to get through. I mean, it wasn't painful or anything, but nor was it one I just sat down and plowed through like a maniac until I was through. I carried the thing around with me for awhile and poked at it in fits and starts over a period of time. I think Virginia Woolf is a genius, but there's something kind of inaccessible about her to me, maybe because I'm not a genius, or because I'm not British, or severely mentally-ill.Anyway, the last page of this novel is among the most brilliant passages ever written in the English language. I still remember where I was when I read it: on the One train, headed downtown, somewhere in the seventies, I think. When I read the very end of this novel, I got an incredible head rush which raced down my spine and spread a glorious, speedy, tingling sensation throughout my central nervous system. YES! Finishing this book actually got me HIGH! It really, really DID!I don't want to talk it up too much, and I can't promise *Mrs. Dalloway* will have the same effect on you. However, it is a Great book, and everybody should read it. Plus, I'm pretty sure there's a special loophole in the Important Book rules that says people who read *Mrs. Dalloway* don't have to finish *Ulysses,* *especially* if you are a girl (hey, I know that's not fair, but I don't make the rules). If time is an issue for you, this is a great deal to take advantage of, as *Mrs. Dalloway* is not only a great deal shorter, but also more accessible. Plus you will be spared the image of Leopold Bloom's penis floating in his bath water, which, let's face it, is pretty gross and will indelibly mark your fragile psyche.And for the rest of your life, whenever you are having a party, bustling about your neighborhood obtaining flowers, beer, etc., thinking about your life, you can pretend to be Mrs. Dalloway. And this is a fun thing to do, for me, anyway.
While reading her works, I get the impression that Virginia Woolf knows everything about people and that she understands life better than anyone, ever. Is there a single hidden feeling or uncommon perspective with which she is not intimately acquainted? And does anyone else draw forth these feelings and perspectives with more grace and empathy, and impart them to us in such a lush, inimitable fashion? Perhaps. But you’d never think that while immersed in her exquisite, adult dramas. In Mrs. Dalloway, Woolf’s able to achieve complete well-roundedness for a half-dozen people in a smattering of pages; where each person is valuable and each is misguided, where disagreements truly have two (or more) reasonable sides, where issues of right wrong black white are utterly absent, dismissed as child’s play, uninteresting. Woolf allows her characters to hate as well as to love, and everyone must expose their private, raw feelings to the reader. I want to get to know Virginia Woolf; I want to absorb her wisdom and to see the world through her eyes, with her soul: wise, beautiful, understanding. She’s one of the few authors whose writing is so evocative and filled with human beings so well-drawn that I frequently drift into thoughts of my own life, comparing myself to Peter Walsh or Clarissa Dalloway or Hugh Whitbread or Sally Seton, ferreting out my own shortcomings as I see them gently spread out in Woolf’s oh-so-real characters. Many people who’ve read Woolf’s shorter works admit surprise at how long it takes to finish them, even if one is fully engrossed. I think this is why: her writing invokes open-ended reverie that’s profoundly personal and inescapable. Woolf’s prose is fantastic, although I prefer that of To the Lighthouse, which has a haunted, ethereal beauty that’s better-fit for the Isle of Skye than for London’s busy streets. Still, she has a poetic way with descriptions that I find so aesthetically pleasing. First a warning, musical; then the hour, irrevocable. Is there a better (better-sounding, at least) description of Big Ben’s tolling? In many passages, the stops and starts feel abrupt, strange to the reading mind. But for whatever reason, it simply feels right; always just enough and never more. It’s difficult to discuss or sum up the plot of this book, which moves fluidly from the streaming conscious of one character to the next. This passing of the story-telling baton is so subtle, however, that I can’t remember a single transition. None. These moments would likely deserve study and genuflection in an inevitable rereading. I suspect that Mrs. Dalloway is one of those books you can not only reread and enjoy at different stages in life, but one that will offer distinct new pleasures and wisdoms at each stage. In other words, it’s the best kind of book. Mrs. Dalloway ultimately builds toward the title character’s dinner party, but I actually found this finale to be somewhat less interesting than the parts that came before. We’re introduced to many new characters in the final 25 pages, which, despite the fact that each one gets no more than a paragraph of time (and some must share), is something of a nuisance after becoming attached to five or six major players. She wraps things up well with the mainstays though, and the ending manages to be both understated and stirring, providing the readers with the pain and relief that comes with confession. Upon finishing, the first thing that popped into my mind was Radiohead: Everything. In its right place.
Mrs. Dalloway is one of those books one is supposed to adore for its disruption of convention and innovative use of time, sound, parallel narrative structure etc. While I respect and admire the literary advances VW makes with this novel, I just can't get into it. I've read it three times over the course of my reading life, once at 17 then at 21, and finally just a few months ago. I find it sleepy like dozing in a warm insect filled garden, which is not a bad way to spend an afternoon (as long as you have some DEET), but ultimately doesn't jolt me into action, revelation, excitement, or motivation. Rather, Mrs. Dalloway really annoys me as a character, and I feel the need to explore this since many of my friends cringe when I tell them I'm just not that into her. I'll continue trying to figure out my problem with this novel and post an update someday. Meanwhile, if there is anyone out there who sort of doesn't like it too, please let me know; I feel lonely.
Well I don't think I was quite ready for Virginia Woolf. It's my first novel by Woolf so I've finally broken my Virginia virginity. The writing is razor sharp, very witty in parts but mostly there's an energy to her writing it's slightly manic and I felt my mind racing through along with her thoughts. But did I enjoy this book? In parts. I found the pacing although the words were written beautifully a little too frenetic like she's throwing everything at you and hoping you keep up. I think this book makes you work for it, it took some time then bam it kinda hits you! She's very modern and forward thinking and I can believe that the themes of this book were quite provocative of it's time (it is set in 1923!!) she specialises in social commentary and tackles things that may have been considered risque of the times, sexuality, depression, post traumatic stress and English class hierarchy and doesn't hold back really getting the atmosphere of London during the inter-war years. I love her enthusiasm of trivial things, everything is bright and alive in this book it's all so clever but it felt too clever for me at times and felt like I needed a degree in English literature to get more from this reading experience as a whole.
Virginia Woolf's Mrs Dalloway took me on an intriguing journey through consciousness, through high-society London, its streets and the natural scenery, and the different fragments of philosophical contemplation. This was unlike anything I had read before, full of (both obscure and lucid) profound observations and meanderings of the human mind, written in beautiful, fluid prose much like the ebb and flow of the tides. There are many paragraphs to which I am sure I will return, to ponder and reflect upon, as I age and my awareness of others grows and as I come to feel more, and to be more sentimental.
I wanted to read a World War I novel. Instead, I read a novel about some men who hated the army. dos Passos would have served his audience better had he provided some detail that leads to these men hating the army. There is some complaint that all they do is go on marches, although we're never there when they actually *do* go on marches. Yep, the army needs its men kept busy, to work as a unit, and to gain physical strength - they still do this and it still works. And, somehow, dos Passos seemed to be of the opinion that everyone should be in charge of whatever work they wanted to do - even in the Army! - and that the officers telling them what to do are making the soldiers "slaves." I understand that dos Passos eventually became disabused of the utopia of communism, but he had not been so enlightened when he penned this.He seemed to want to make sure his readers could envision his scenes in color.They passed the leafless gardens of the Tuileries on one side, and the great inner courts of the Louvre, with their purple mansard roofs and their high chimneys on the other, and saw for a second the river, dull jade green, and the plane trees splotched with brown and cream color along the quais, before they were lost in the narrow brownish-grey streets of the old quarters.I did not especially like his characters, although likability isn't a requirement for me, but the characterizations might have been better. The prose wasn't great, but I've read worse and I expect he got better. If you're looking for action, look elsewhere, because dos Passos' enemy in this one are the non-coms and officers. This is my first by the author, and I'll probably try at least one more, as this is one of his earliest works. Three stars, but nearer two than four.
So fresh, so vivid. A masterpiece.
Beautiful, brilliant, thought-provoking and inciting, this personal argument against society, civilization and war will never stop digging at cherished illusions and demanding answers.
Very depressing but wonderful view into World War I, what military service can do to people, and the changes engendered that can change the course of their lives.
I tend to agree with the reviewer who compared this book to a Terence Malick film. I guess going in I was expecting something more like All Quiet on the Western Front. You go thru the 2nd half thinking "This can't end well" and sure enough ...The difference between those who prefer the security of regimentation - what I sometimes think of as the military mentality - and those who chafe at the idea of anyone telling them what to do is presented starkly and effectively. Yes, it's an antiwar novel of sorts, but primarily it's a character study - not so much presenting the dehumanization of the military as presenting the characters' perceptions of it. I think my favorite was Andrews' observation that life was to be used to some value, not like a box of bonbons stored on a shelf and never eaten.
This is the story of three soldiers during WWI. It follows them from training through to shortly after the Armistice. (Spoiler-The war ends in the middle of the book.) Dos Passos has a style that is not for everyone. Things are very episodic and a narrative thread is hard to find. I found this book to be OK, but a bit long. I prefer his shorter WWI story "One Man's Initiation" to be more accessible. That said, there were parts I enjoyed, and parts I slogged through, and times where I put it down for several days. Not a page turner, but more a psychological study of soldiers.
John Dos Passos was politicized by his experiences of war. During World War I he served as an ambulance driver in Italy and France and his experiences led him to become a Communist. Later, his experiences during the Spanish Civil War caused him to become disenchanted with the left and his politics became increasingly conservative during the 1950s. When this novel was published in 1921, it caused a sensation. A direct result of Dos Passos’ World War I experiences, it’s a passionate anti-war polemic, albeit one that deals less with the horror of actual warfare and more with the pettiness, corruption and cruelty of military life. The work relates the experiences of three young American men with different backgrounds and motivations, who embark for Europe to serve their country. Ultimately, the narrative focuses on John Andrews, a sensitive Harvard-educated musician, whose attitudes most closely reflect those of the author. Had I not listened to the audiobook version of the novel immediately after listening to Ernest Hemingway’s The Sun Also Rises, I suspect that I would have liked it more. While the writing is powerful and unsentimental, its verbosity does not compare well with Hemingway’s simpler, less cluttered style. The novel would have been much better, I think, – and probably more widely read today – if the prose wasn’t weighed down by quite so many adverbs, adjectives and similes. Even though I usually love ornate prose, the language in this novel at times made me impatient. Further, I was never in any doubt as to what the author wanted me to think and how he wanted me to feel, when I would have preferred to simply feel and think for myself.That said, I don’t regret the time I spent listening to the novel, which was beautifully narrated by George Guidall, and I plan to read more of Dos Passos’ work. My interest in his writing has been sparked by my “Lost Generation” reading project. It’s been interesting to discover a writer who was well known and critically well received in his time. It’s a shame that he’s not better known now.
There were once three soldiers of The Great War. And three characters that I can't say I really cared about. Maybe it's because after 450+ pages, I still hadn't figured out what made them tick. What makes that odd is that they spent the entire book lost in introspection and talking about themselves. They did a lot of eating and talking about what they missed about home. They huddled up to keep warm and discussed how they couldn't wait to get to the front. Then they drank cognac at small cafes and talked some more. This is the only war book I've ever read that had no combat scenes. On the plus side, the author is a master at describing scenery:The sun had set. The sky was full of lilac and bright purple and carmine. Among the deep blue shadows lights were coming on, primrose-colored street lamps, violet arc lights, ruddy sheets of light poured out of shop windows.Another scene I liked was where one soldier stepped out of a his marching platoon to watch some frogs in a puddle - a simple, perfect moment of life set against slaughter.The book had a very modern feel to it, and a good, but dispiriting ending.Manhattan Transfer now sits glaring at me from the shelf. I'll get to it one of these days. Maybe.
One of the great joys in my life are the friends who send me books. Thankful to my friend, Steve, for sending me this classic.A peer of Hemingway and Faulkner, Dos Passos shares a story based on his own experience as an ambulance driver in World War I. The tone of his book is less like others in the Lost Generation, and more like Kurt Vonnegut and Tim O'Brien, veterans of wars that came after "the war to end all wars".
Hauntingly beautiful....this is not a thriller per se.....but I truly enjoyed it and the ending....blew me away.
Three Soldiers more like Three Pretentious Assholes. I realize that Dos Passos was giving his perspective of the war and his distaste for the military. The writing style was nicely portrayed but the characters were disappointing. I'm pretty sure that the only trees that Dos Passos is aware of are poplars. If there is ever a mention of the scenery, (and there are quite a few) he always mentions poplars. There could be a drinking game made out of it.*Spoiler*The book starts with the Italian kid from San Francisco, but I quickly realized that his only motive is to aspire to higher ranks. Who cares? As is expected, he gets passed over for his promotion and lives a dissatisfied career.The second soldier is a son of a bitch. He's a murderer. He kills one of his own sergeants with a grenade as he's alone on the battlefield. He was my least favorite.The third was the prissy coward who thought himself a slave. He was too good for doing physical work and being commanded. I'm glad he got his come-up-ins in the ends. He was so jaded and so much of the book dedicated to him that he was the main reason I didn't like the book.All together, it was an uninteresting waste of time.
Most of the great American modernist books are forgotten, passed over for Faulkner (eh) and Hemingway (double eh). But Three Soldiers is doubly neglected, because to the (very limited) extent that people still rad Dos Passos, it's pretty much Manhattan Crossing and the U.S.A trilogy. The trilogy is wonderful, but I prefer Three Soldiers -- the sociological observation is still leavened by a romantic sensibility. And WWI is the best possible illustration of the transformation of American society from human-scale small towns to mass industrialism that was Dos Passos' great subject.
This was an interesting a good book about some of the horrors of war and how it can break down the spirit of a person. The characters a sort of cross section of classes and role and education, developed well though it was really, for the most part, focused around one soldier and his struggles. It addressed how the system could tell on a man and certainly what is today called PTSD is very very present.I will try to read more by Dos Passos. I have had this book on my kindle for a long time (on of the "free" kindle books) and a suggestion from my Goodreads friend Dimitri that I read "The Ambulance Drivers: Hemingway, Dos Passos and a Friendship Made and Lost in War" - spurred to read this to get some Dos Passos background (I have already read a bit of Hemingway - long time fan) and since this Dos Passos book predates the era of the recommended book I thought it would be a good choice.It is a good read - if you have the time and the subject interests you give it a try.
First off, it's a short story. I started reading this story this morning, kind of vaguely thinking I had probably already read it. (It was rainy, dark. Lovecraft seemed appropriate.) I was probably recalling Lovecraft's "Under the Pyramids." Anyway, "The Nameless City" is the first story in a massive (and cheap) collection of Lovecraft's (complete) stories that I got for my Kindle. What a nice and creepy surprise! How I missed this over the years is beyond me. It's mentioned as being the first Cthulhu Mythos story. No question. Several references to the "mad Arab" Abdul Alhazred, weird murals in an ancient and abandoned city, with strange creatures portrayed, and an oppressive sense of dread. As a story goes, it's slight, with an unnamed protagonist (an archaeologist?) exploring the ruins of a shunned city on the Arabian peninsula. Ancient mythology, weird and unclean looking alters, and strange noises all combine into an atmospheric precursor for the later "Mountains of Madness." The emphasis here is on atmosphere, so much so that it casts the kind of spell, through rhythm and language, that has you thinking of poetry. If you are into the CM, "The Nameless City" is foundational and necessary stuff. Note: Allow me to bitch about the Library of America edition of Lovecraft's "Tales." The Library of America publishes some handsome looking books. They also publish, with a selected author, EVERYTHING that author has cranked out. That often includes the good and the bad (see , for example, Faulkner's Pylon). I was initially thrilled to see Lovecraft make the cut for the Library of America series. Now I just feel ripped off. The above story should have been included. I'm now sure there are quite a few others. Here's a link to the story if you want to read it: http://www.hplovecraft.com/writings/t...
My very first Lovecraft.It was written supremely well, if inundated with many long, fantastical words that may or may not have been needed. Can't say I was scared or horrified or even that moved by it, but it was definitely intriguing.A lone narrator wanders the desert and finds himself in a lost-and nameless-city, just screaming to be explored. Great descriptions of what is to be found there, if not altogether easy to follow. I feel like there is a certain way to read Lovecraft that I hopefully will figure out soon.
The main character in this one was such a weirdo, I found it distracting from the narrative. I mean, I know lot of horror depends for its existence on characters who will walk into completely inadvisable places, and I'm fine with that, but what kind of person crawls down a deep, dark tunnel so low that they have to crawl and slither through at points, and then doesn't even notice when their torch goes out and keeps going? My other problem with this was Lovecraft describing completely neutral things as outlandishly horrible, such as the extreme age of the ruins (awe-inspiring maybe, but horrible?) or the steepness of the steps the character has to descend (dizzying and sickening perhaps, but horrible?). And lizardmen are sooo 80s. I know I can't really accuse a book written in the 20s of being "80s", but I find it hard to take lizardmen seriously. Still, the descriptions of of the city and the build up were quite nice, and I could nearly believe the guy's excitement at finding such a ruin overcoming his natural fear and common sense. And it also contained these lines: "that is not dead which can eternal lie and with strange aeons even death may die"My first glimpse in my Lovecraft reading of the Necronomicon! Let my descent into insanity commence!
I find that Lovecraft's style of writing is a bit too forced. He relies heavily on making the horror explicit through words such a "terrible" "horrendous" or "terrifying" to convey the dread of his plot instead of letting the reader feel these emotions trough his own imagination. The way he conveys the aura of his settings is clearly sufficient to inspire terror in he reader without the need to emphasize these feelings explicitly. In my opinion, such abuse of the horror adjectives tends to actually dilute the ambient, making his stories less dreadful than what they could be. Its as if he tries too hard to inspire the imagination of the reader, and ends up spoiling the experience
it was cool
Weird, atmospheric, intriguing. I liked it.
Thank god it is a short story
Inspirational mood and setting.
I'm actually reading this from a giant "complete" collection of Lovecraft's fiction on my Kindle, but I'm going to log as many of the novels and stories separately, so I can actually make ratings and comments on each one, really for my own benefit. I am a big fan of Lovecraft's mythology, but I've only read a smattering of the stories so far. I tend to find his ideas and creations better than his actual writing, which sometimes comes across a bit overblown and baroque. In this case, the story is about a lone explorer finding ancient ruins, and descending into them on his own. The atmosphere of the story relies on a lot of direct exposition, and it is easy to step back and just boil it down to nothing more than an archeological discovery. There are references to various mythological places, but they may not mean much without other references, and so all the dread in story is oblique. We are told how horrific and weird everything is, but there's not a whole lot to actually prove it, outside of the fact that the narrator ends up having to crawl for long distances. Whether or not the reader participates in the sense of claustrophobia is up to, well, the reader. This story is a middling effort, serving as a small piece in the larger puzzle of Lovecraftian mythos, but not by itself a standout example.
When I drew nigh the nameless city I knew it was accursed. I was travelling in a parched and terrible valley under the moon, and afar I saw it protruding uncannily above the sands as parts of a corpse may protrude from an ill-made grave. Fear spoke from the age-worn stones of this hoary survivor of the deluge, this great-grandmother of the eldest pyramid; and a viewless aura repelled me and bade me retreat from antique and sinister secrets that no man should see, and no man else had dared to see.I downloaded a giant trove of H.P's fiction for my Kindle reader, and this short little ditty is the first offering in the collection. In typical Lovecraftian style, our narrator, a lone traveler, searches for a mysterious and ancient city, decides to explore it despite all sorts of ominous warnings to flee, and descends into madness from the sheer horror of it.Great stuff. Glad to be reading the Master again.
Short story by Lovecraft that heralds the Cthulhu Mythos saga.It tells the tale of a man exploring a ruined city in the deserts of the Arabian Peninsula. And I knew I was in for a treat when the main character described that the Nameless City's architecture was low. Too low, in fact, for humans to walk through.As with all his stories, Lovecraft uses scene description to heighten the fear and horror of the main character's plight.Fun stuff!
Lovecraft's writing style. I think the fact that Lovecraft uses so much detail when describing.....everything....is what I don't like about his stories. I can get a somewhat good image in my head of what is taking place in the story, it's just that the author goes on and on for so many more sentences? paragraphs? that it's just too much. This is only my second one and I wasn't able to get into either one. Not a fan.
The first chapters are incredibly helpful in defining the causes of our behavior, instincts, habits, and desires. You can get a different perspective of your character and find patterns, whether good or bad, and, maybe, modify them. It is another view of one's Self, with simple concepts in a friendly writing.  The second half of the book may be tedious, but useful, as well, to those involved in the study of psyque.  In a sort of synthesis, Russell states that reality yields not in matter nor in mind, but in a mixture of both. The study of that mix would allow us to see the true correlations (e.g. causal relations) between mind and matter. Russell appeals for a multidisciplinary approach in all sciences.
This is an excellent book that, as it claims, works to reconcile physics with psychology. I only have two complaints: a.) as with anything written concerning psychology prior to the advent of neuroscience, some of the content is severely dated--the sections on memory and emotion, for instance, and b.) the length, coming in at about 190 pages, seems a bit sparse to justify its high-reaching goal. That is not to say that Russell fails here in his attempt, because I believe he succeeds wholeheartedly, but it is clear that this is not his area of expertise (as he carefully notes more than once), and I don't think he was quite well-read enough in the current psychological literature of the day to allow him to flesh out some of the chapters.
Nothing like the joy of Public Domain books. I'll admit that I haven't read too much philosophy, but this was probably a good choice for me considering my background. I especially enjoyed the lecture on language and will probably look into more linguistic theory in the future. I am familiar with both Behaviorism and Introspection (being more of a Behaviorism fan due to its pragmatic uses), so I appreciate how he builds on, discuses, and refutes certain parts of their theories. I will say that for a book published in 2002, he is a bit more behind than what I would have expected. And I do enjoy the logical approach he has towards these things (which have more specific terms in cognitive psychology).I also have to give props to Russell because he seems like a genuinely cool guy who's beliefs seem to coincide with mine. He seems to talk about every subject, and I like this quote from his Wikipedia "When Brand Blanshard asked Russell why he did not write on aesthetics, Russell replied that he did not know anything about it, 'but that is not a very good excuse, for my friends tell me it has not deterred me from writing on other subjects'"
The book is mind blowing. It gives you insight of how mind works. You will know the more about how we understand, remember, dream, recollect and worry. You can't read fast as it is a mind stretching subject !!!
A great one!
I'm honestly fascinated with this book. I recall having read bits of it for a psychology class and more bits for a philosophy class. However, I never read the entire thing ─ even though I actually have the book on my shelf. I need to read the book, not listen to it, and take notes. This seems like it could be a great starting point for understanding metacognition and other neuroscience things that often relate to teaching, leadership, and working with people in any capacity.
Russell is the most accessible of all philosophers that I have read so far.
The only real purpose I can see for this book is historical, as a look into the thoughts and attitudes of people in the 1920's. Did people really believe this was real science when this came out? I've seen recent reviews from people on Amazon who gave this book a high rating and thought the methods described would be helpful for analyzing people. Kind of scary. The theories, to me, seem to be complete nonsense, made up of outdated (by a century) stereotypes.
The best book no one has ever heard of! Can you really determine a person's whole character by the shape of his or her hands, or face? Elsie says you can and I believe her, because the measurements she gives for deciding each person have been so scarily accurate, I almost don't believe it. I found this book on gutenberg.org and downloaded it to Plucker, there is also a text version with drawings. A really interesting find!
Quite funny actually. Especially the bit about 'fat people' - how they make a 'beeline' for the widest chair and how the 'fat man' is predominantly seen in the Jewish faith (!!!). One gripe though: Ms. Elsie Benedict seemed to have overlooked MY type. I feel very left out! lol. That aside, I think it's quite extraordinary that people flocked to universities to hear this lady talk about how your body shape determines your personality. Thoroughly amusing, if not slightly racist with comments that smack of ignorance. It's also a bit of an eye-opener, as we can clearly see that the entrepreneurial pseudo-socio scientist model was prevalent even back then.I wonder what 'type' Ms. Benedict was...
I liked this book. I like ideas that tackle one of the most important things in life, out how to deal with others. Stereotypes based on physical characteristics are probably as accurate as astrology or birth order, so take with a pound of salt, but there is some truth to this book. Look at characters in books and film and one will see that physical characteristics are as much a part of the character as their costumes are. Stereotypes exist for reasons, the chief one being that most people we encounter in life we must make judgements on quickly and with as little information as a single glance. It isn't wrong to do so, however refusing any additional input to the initial impressions means that we will only operate in the world with our pre- judgements and no hope for getting to the unique individual inside.
This is the most idiotic pile of garbage I have EVER, EVER, EVER...EVER READ.Example of one of five types of human beings that have been "discovered" by science: The Fat Man"How the Fat Man Talks" Never to take anything too seriously is an unconscious policy of fat people. they show it plainly in their actions and speech. The very fat man is seldom a brilliant conversationalist. He is often "jollier" and tells stories well, especially anecdotes and personal experiences."The Fat Man Lives to Eat"Rich food in large quantities is enjoyed by the average fat man three times a day and three hundred and sixty-five days of the year. Between meals, he usually manages to stow away a generous supply of candy, ice cream, popcorn, and fruit. We have interviewed countless popcorn and fruit vendors on this subject and every one of them told us that fat people keep them in business.Are. You. Kidding. Me? This is not science and guess what? Elsie was FAT! Like the infant, he demands food first. Almost the only time a fat man loses his temper is when he has been deprived of his food. The next demand on his list is sleep, another characteristic of the immature.This book just goes to show that "science" is mostly a bunk field filled with frauds and mealy-mouthed shit-talkers. Just like today.*takes a bow*
Utter garbage. I can't really mark this as 'read' because in no way did I finish it. It's terrible fluff, padded with needless "examples" of the (supposed) true types of people. Don't bother.
When I listen to uneducated people talk about societal problems, the tone is similar to that of this book. Want to get ideas for characters based on stereotypes, this book is for you. Want the truth about humans and human nature, watch out. The judgments and analyses are so naive you can do danger to yourself and others if you follow the ideas presented in this silly book. I gave it 2 stars instead of 1 because the literary value is good for basing characters off for writers.
It's funny but if you look at it closely but People who complain about this book are the ones who cannot accept and do not like the type they are after they have learned which one they are. If you look at their comments carefully they don't state to why exactly it is a bad book and just goes off saying its racist or inaccurate without really having a strong standpoint. Also I would suggest comment readers to use what they have read into use and observer the people who are complaining and what type they are. Surely, a cerebral or two will have a good smirk out of what I just said.
Have you ever read a book that was full of hot air and gave very little information or advice? That's what this book seemed like to me. Overall, this seemed to be nothing more than a lot of short choppy musings that didn't seem to go any where. Reading this was a waste of time.
Very politically incorrect as it was written in the 20s but still very interesting!
Astoundingly difficult to read due to the book's format and the author's choice to deliver unrelated or repetitive "micro chunks" of information. This book is also highly unscientific, racist, and, among other things, unusually shallow. Should only be read as an object of studying quack science or for fun, not as a serious endeavour.
The theories and concepts in this book are interesting and have some merit but thats about where it ends. For those getting wound up and upset over the book being offensive, get a grip. It was written in a time where society and attitudes were vastly different to now. And its hardly offensive in any event. If you find it offesnive I suggest you take a look at yourself and ask when you became such a whinger and an annoyance to others. I found myself thinking when I read the book that quite literally I fit not any of the 5 types but rather there are components of all types in me. so much so that it was impossible to distinguish which type could be classified as my dominant type. With that said I can identify which type I can be least closely linked with, 'the fat man' although even some of those traits I can relate to ie liking comfort sometimes, etc but the other 4 I'm almost equal proportions of. That's why the theories in this book fall over. because if some types are opposite to others then how can I be all of them without being a living contradiction in all do? There is some basis or validity in these theories, something to it but not much more than that. People and their characters are as diverse and limitless as bodies in the universe. 5 types? I dont think so.
Fairly an old book in relative terms. Very good insight and thought provoking parts. They psychology of fat and thin people, hailing from how they have come to be so, is brilliant! An interesting read overall!
It's interesting material, but scientifically ridiculous. Even if she had sources to back up what she says, there's absolutely no way I'd believe them after reading this book. Most of it is just logical assumptions.
Its a fun book to readYou can actually see a lot of truth in it
Wonderfully enjoyable. . . . A foreword by Heston Blumenthal puts this edition in context: "[Escoffier] said he wanted the book to be 'a useful tool rather than just a recipe book,' and that's exactly what it is." Another nice grace note--a very brief biography of Escoffier on pages xx-xxii by his grandson Pierre P. Escoffier.While Escoffier may have said that this is not a recipe book, the recipes are delightfully straightforward. I have made Cerise jubilee any number of times. His description of how to make this is one of the shortest and most direct. That impressed me!To the extent that it is relevant, the chapters are organized by various obvious categories: sauces, garnishes, soups, hors-d'oeuvre, eggs, fish, butchers' meat, poultry, game, composite entrees, roasts, vegetables, sweets and desserts, ices, sandwiches, and fruits, jams, and drinks. Covering the waterfront, in short.Each section, of course, features many recipes. But the short introductory comments are also worthy of note. Here, Escoffier provides general statements about how to approach matters. Sauces? He speaks of basic preparations, such as stocks, glazes, mirepoix, and so on. Back to basics. Then, some general principles on preparing sauces. In short, one gains his perspective on sauces before actually exploring individual recipes.All in all, a most enjoyable volume for an amateur cook like me.
An encyclopedic French/English cookbook from the turn of the century. Interesting historical detail aplenty buried amongst the oysters and braised endive. Cooking methods at the turn of the century were much less, well, cookbook than they are now; a cook had to know how to manipulate the fire and the materials. That's still true at a high level of proficiency, of course, but the mass-market cookbooks we're used to no longer operate that way.A word of warning--if you don't eat bacon, this book will be of limited usefulness. At least 75% of the savory recipes contain bacon. Meatloaf (forcemeat) is another staple. As disgusting as it is to grind meat now...imagine forcing it through a sieve by hand all day as the forcemeat-maker. Apparently this was such an art form that there was a guild devoted to the making of it in France. Thank you, wikipedia.That said, I really enjoyed reading this giant tome and found it rather useful, because Monsieur Escoffier didn't feel the need to put flour in every dang dish. Just bacon.
A Guide to Modern Cookery
The best breakdown of French cooking I've seen
Every lawyer must read Holmes' The Common Law. Every doctor must read the Corpus Hippocraticum. Every priest must read Aquinas' Summa Theologica. So it is that every serious cook should read Escoffier. The author did not write this magnum opus with the home cook in mind; it was written for cooking professionals and therefor omits much of the instruction necessary to a mass-market cookbook in the 21st Century. His goal was to organize and simplify the classic French cooking of Antoine Carême, who he regarded as a master of haute cuisine. The result is useful in varying ways. It contains many recipes which the modern cook will not attempt; he assumes that one has unlimited supplies of truffles and fois gras at hand. His recipe for turtle soup includes detailed instructions on how to kill the turtle and get it out of its shell. The techniques were written down before the invention of the blender, the food processor and the convection oven; they need to be adjusted accordingly. His measurements vary from finicky precise to opaquely vague: exactly 9/10 of a pint of this and "a glassful" of that; exactly 207 degrees Fahrenheit and the temperature of a "warm oven." But it is all Escoffier, who came down from the mountaintop bearing nearly a thousand pages of culinary commandments. I thought it would take a year to read them all; the task was accomplished in only ten months. They were ten months well spent.
After 6000 hours in a Chef Apprenticeship, I can still recite most of the recipes in this book. Over the years I have come to appreciate this training more so than when I was a young chef (who thought he was much better than he was!) and I now realize the importance of excellence in every endeavor. That is what this book is about, you need to learn the proper way to do things before you explore, deconstruct and critic.
"The Escoffier Cookbook" is a heavily abridged American version of Auguste Escoffier's 1903 book "Guide Culinaire". It is a fascinating look at the art of professional European cookery at the beginning of the 20th century.However, to appreciate this book fully, it's important to understand exactly who it was written for. Escoffier's original guide was never for a second intended for the home cook. Escoffier was a pioneer with respect to the education of professional chefs, and originally wrote this book for the use of those working in grand houses, in hotels, on ocean liners, and in restaurants who might not have had access to contemporary recipes. Accordingly, the original book does not attempt to teach basic cooking or food preparation techniques. The American translation does include some details on cooking techniques and utensils unfamiliar to the average American chef (such as poeleing, worth the cost of the book alone, and the old French form of braising), but even in the translation it is assumed that the reader is a trained, experienced chef.The recipes themselves are clear and simple to follow, but represent only a small subset of French cooking of the early 20th century. An earlier reviewer mentioned that there was no recipe for onion soup; this is true, but it should be understood that onion soup would never have been accepted by the class of restaurant patron Escoffier cooked for. Much of what has arrived on this side of the Atlantic as "French cooking" - dishes such as pot-au-feu, onion soup, and steak frites - is distinctly middle-class, and consequently would have been rejected by the clientele of quality restaurants of the time as being unspeakably boorish. Escoffier personally enjoyed bourgeois cooking, but as an astute, intelligent businessman he provided the haute cuisine his clients demanded.One interesting difference between modern cooking and the cooking featured in this book is that Escoffier uses few spices, and indeed declaims on the foolishness of using large amounts of spices in meat dishes. This appears bizarre from our vantage point, but Escoffier had sound economic reasons for his proscriptions. Most diners of the time grew up in the days before refrigeration, when old deteriorating meat was heavily spiced to make it palatable. Fresh, unspiced meat was a sign of the highest quality. The association between strong spices and poor quality was powerful enough to survive long into the 20th century, as any reader of a 1950s American cookbook can attest.As for the recipes themselves, I doubt that many of them could be prepared by the North American home cook. Most of us cannot afford (if we can even find) foie gras, truffles, or capons, and few have espagnole sauce or fish fumet available at all times. However, many recipes can be adapted for the modern cook - using cepes or porcini mushrooms for truffles, for instance - and those that can be prepared really are delicious.
Ongoing interesting reading... seeing into the mind of the absolute culinary idealist!!! INSPIRING
Just got this from Powells. Very exciting.
Fabulous reference guide
*Rant coming up ahead*Ever heard of Jason and the Argonauts? No? WHY. Basically, they were what people used to fangirl about centuries ago, instead of Kaz Brekker and the Dregs.  SummarySo this boy Jason shows up one day in his hometown and walks straight up to his evil uncle aka King Pelias and says 'hey uh, that throne belongs to me. Cuz you know, you kinda stole it from my dad.' LITERALLY.I don't get how people had the guts to be so straightforward back then.Anyway, Pelias is like hm okay but before that you gotta bring me the Golden Fleece at the end of the rainbow. Because #yolo, Jason agrees. Then out of nowhere he gathers up a crew with star-studded names/a bunch of badass heroes who you'd probably recognize. (To be honest I knew Orpheus and Theseus were part of it, but Atalanta though?? I had no idea the squad be lit.) And so they journey and have tons of fun and adventures and near death experiences, e.g. shaking Heracles' hand and defeating dragons.Also, there's a witch somewhere along the way, straight out of Ravenclaw.I'm a huge sucker for myths and folklore, so before I got into this book I was expecting to finish with a solid 4~5 stars. But we need to talk about—  The Writing*clears throat*"O my lord," the slave said, "I have come before thee sent by Æson, my master, who told me where to come and what blasts to blow upon the horn. And Æson, once King of Iolcus, bade me say to thee that if thou dost remember his ancient friendship with thee thou wilt, perchance, take this child and guard and foster him, and, as he grows, instruct him with thy wisdom.""Ah, that I were as young as he is now! Ah, that I had been reared and fostered as he was reared and fostered by the wise centaur and under the eyes of the immortals!"Suitable for kids in the 1600s? Hell yeah. Suitable for kids in the 21st century? Hell no.Unless you could stand reading 320 pages of thee's and thou's. That's no problem, but it just wasn't for me. I legit struggled with deciding whether or not I should DNF this book and almost sobbed.This book wasn't bad, to be honest, but I felt like it kept jumping back and forth. It was as if instead of only covering the letter A, the author went like hmm A is related to B, because alphabets, right? So maybe I'll just tell my readers about ABCDEFGHIJ.Oh no wait, how about AXCHGBEDIF? Just ??????????As if he had to tell us about every existing myth that had a connection to Jason. Which can possibly lead us to what? The creation of mankind, probably. Because Jason wouldn't exist if we didn't talk about how 'Heaven and Earth had children'. Plus, the order was super confusing.Okay to be honest, some other stories weren't even related. I understand how the title of this book says 'The Golden Fleece and the Heroes Who Lived Before Achilles', but the main plot was originally about the Argonauts, so why talk about Pandora all of a sudden?Oh and also, Hades is called Aidoneus over here. Don't ask me why. When the book talked about the gods I almost thought this man was left out at first lmao.Because of the writing, I felt myself skimming a few pages in the middle. I'd still recommend it to some people, but if you're just starting Greek mythology, this book might be a tad overwhelming and confuse the soul out of you.
I started out really liking this book, but about a quarter of the way through it began to bore me to tears. I think that it was Twain who said something like, "Don't tell your readers that the lady is singing. Bring her on stage and let them hear her." Well, this book was all telling.I want a GOOD Greek-mythilogical fantasy.
I remember this book being read to me as a child and I didn't like it then and I don't like it now. The prose is quasi-archaic with thous and thees thrown into passive sentences that tell rather than show what happens. It makes for a dull read. The myths aren't in chronological order even though they could be sorted and told in such a manner instead of bouncing back and forth in time. As a child, I couldn't keep the chronology straight, not without backtracking and rereading (which I wasn't inclined to do; thankfully, I heard the stories and my relatives could quickly catch me up to where I needed to be or I would've abandoned the book). As an adult, I've been exposed to Edith Hamilton and I prefer her versions of the myths. As a child, I had problems visualizing the ancient Greek world. I couldn't keep places straight and adult-me still thinks a map should've been included for reference. I also would have liked a small dictionary to help with pronunciation (and maybe a quick lesson on the evolution of the Greek alphabet). I feel like this book missed a lot of teaching opportunities.
This book describes the voyage of the Argonauts in quest of the Golden Fleece. I see two problems in this book:a) Apparently it was too short, so the author "completed" it with several other Greek myths, some related, as to what happened to Jason's companions before or after the quest; some totally unrelated, as the stories of Perseus; Epimetheus and Pandora; or Prometheus.b) The fact that the author is writing for children apparently moved him to soften some of the more grisly elements of the stories, although this is difficult to do when adapting Greek myths, for they frequently are gruesome enough. In these cases, I prefer eliding parts of the stories to changing them. This is done, for example, while describing the end of the relation between Medea and Jason, which departs significantly from the version by Euripides.
The Golden Fleece is about a boy named jason who goes on a journey for the Golden Fleece. He gets a crew of hero's that build a boat called the Argo. They start on their journey to the island of Colchis is, on their way they take breaks on other islands and help the community that is on the island. On the islands, they Save King Phineus from harpies and tell stories to the women of Lemnos. They finally get to Colchis and get the Golden Fleece. And return home. I would recommend this book to any one that has read the Percy Jackson series. It is a very good book that is for all ages.
This book is about a boy named Jason who goes on a quest to find the Golden Fleece. He was born in the wild by a centaur and one day he finds out who he really is and he needs to find the Golden Fleece. On his epic journey he runs into danger, bad weather and monsters.Do you think he will find it? I would recommend this book to any one who likes adventure.
Padraic Colum is the author of the Newberry Medal awarded story "The Golden Fleece and the Heroes Who Lived Before Achilles." This book is set is ancent Greece where a boy named Jason, son of the past King AEson, and many different Heroes set out on a quest to fin and bring back the Golden Fleece. "Then would I bring from far Colchis, the famous Fleece of Gold that King AEetes keeps guard over!" (pg. 20) The group of Heroes is call the Argonauts.I don't recommend this book because the story line is not engaging or entertaining because the words the author used doesn't pull me in. The way the author used dialog that had characters using accents was not enjoyable in my opinion, "And whither shall be bear her?" (pg. 165) In the past I have read stories set in Greece, and I didn't find them ecxiting. In this book the fact that the book was set in Greece did make it less interesting for me as the reader.
Anyone who is really interested in Greek mythology will love this book. I had been looking for a good re-telling of the story of Jason and the Argonauts and that's exactly what I found here. There were also additional tales and references to many, many other famous stories from Greek mythology interspersed throughout (the Labors of Heracles, Theseus and the Minotaur, the story of Prometheus, Orpheus and Eurydice, the story of Hades (aka "Aidoneus") and Persephone, Pandora's Box, etc., etc.). It strikes me that this book would a great educational supplement for any literature or history unit concerning Greek mythology or ancient Greece. I can definitely see how this would be dry reading for anyone who doesn't find Greek mythology inherently interesting. However, if you are the type of person who might pick up The Odyssey or The Iliad for pleasure reading -- or even if you're just a fan of books like Percy Jackson and the Olympians -- this book is definitely for you.
Fairly well-written compilation of the Golden Fleece and other stories of Greek heroes. Way more readable than a lot of fair for kids written at this time. Personally, I think this is a better book and has held up better than the Newbery winner that year, The Story of Mankind.
I actually started this a loooong time ago (easily 5 years) but found it a bit boring so I discontinued reading. I picked it up again after recently completing Edith Hamilton's compilation of myths - that helped a lot. This book by Padraic Colum is supposedly meant for children / YA. Fair enough, as far as Greek mythologies go, they are filled with lusty and violent tales of gods and mortals, and these elements may not be suitable for young impressionable minds. However, even if you redact this, you still have to appeal to your target audience, which I think Colum failed to accomplish. His tales are matter-of-fact, and straightforward; he doesn't seek to excite you. I find it a great pity, because I liked his editorial choice of using the Argonauts as narrative vessels to help weave in snippets of the Olympians. Other than that, it really was quite dry, which explains why I dropped this book the first time.
Lots of good stories. Sometimes it uses name variants that are less familiar. Narrator OK, but not great - very dry.
The book The Golden Fleece and the Hero's Who Lived Before Achilles by Padraic Colum is about a young boy named Jason goes on a quest to find the golden fleece. Jason was the son of king Aeson, but becomes an orphan when he was 3 years old. Aeson send one of his slaves to take Jason to the king centaur. The slave did what he wished for. The centaur told the slave that he would look after the child until the child became a man. This centaurs name was King Chiron. After a few years later Jason was given the chance to go see his parents and live free. Jason wanted to see his parents so he took the chance. Jason met with his uncle and was furious after hearing that he was the new king. Jason told him he would do anything to give back his father the throne, so the king sent him on a journey to get the golden fleece. Along with the of other heroes, will Jason survive or not?I recommend this book to anyone who like ancient greek mythology and likes fantasies.I liked this book because it was interesting how they did these awesome things in there.
This book is about a youth named Jason who was fostered by a Chiron, the centaur. After he was fostered by Chiron he went back to his real father. Then he meets the king of his country, king Pelias, who makes him go on a daring voyage for THE GOLDEN FLEECE. He gets his army ready with famous people such as: Hercules, Orpheus, Atalanta, Theseus, and Medea. Will Jason be able to get THE GOLDEN FLEECE back to king Pelias, or will he die on his voyage to get it.I would give this book to anyone. The plot had a lot of twist and turns. I really like the part where the book tells my favorite greek stories such as: Theseus and the Minotaur, Hercules and his fights against monsters like the Hydra, Orpheus trying to get his bride from the Underworld.
I wouldn't have even given this book a chance if I hadn't read the forward by Rick Riordan. His forward made the book sound so exciting. It wasn't. The story is constantly jumping from one myth to another. The author has the heroes tell stories (myths) to each other while on their journey to gain back the Golden Fleece. All of the myth telling was boring and confusing. It was almost like the author thought he had to cover all the Greek myths in one book. Rather than reading the cliff notes versions of many myths I would have rather read a book about Jason and the Argonauts.
So far I think The Golden Fleece and the Heros Who Lived Before Achilles is a cool book that is written in old english. Sometimes the story is hard to understand because it is thousands of years old. Overall, I think the book The Golden Fleece and the Heros Who Lived Before Achilles is an awesome book but is for people with high reading skills.
I read some book about Jason and the Golden Fleece and other myths in the sixth grade, but I have no clue what the title was. The fact that this one was a Newbury Honor makes this one a safe guess. If anyone had Mrs. Collins at Parker and remembers more let me know! :P
Not a light, easy read, although it is easier to read than any history text I have had to tackle. I am reading this for pleasure, and it is an enjoyable book. It is written in a fast paced, novel-like style, but it is very involved and will take a while to finish.
I read this book years ago pre-GoodReads, but came across it in my bookcase this week. This is a comprehensive history of Ireland and it's inhabitants and cultures. While it may not be for everyone, if you have Irish blood, this is all part of your heritage and you will probably find at least parts of this story to be interesting and make you even prouder to have Irish ancestors.
on page 32, i was already overwhelmed with all the tough names and decided to give up.
Irish history emerges from misty legends. This book sifts for facts among the fables. Invaders and powerful kings make up much of the early narrative, as it was they who left historical footprints. Tribal Ireland needed powerful kings to form a united front against foreign invaders. Indeed, Ireland was invaded and colonized so many times from so many directions that it is hard to say for sure who the Irish are. It is a story marked by wars, famines, persecutions, and widespread suffering. Saints and scholars enter the narrative, followed by freedom fighters and Fenians. At times this book becomes a litany of atrocities committed against the Irish, but that's the way it was. This is the Irish experience to about 1920. Did you know that the Irish invaded England? That Christianity was established in Ireland before St. Patrick arrived? That the Renaissance began in Ireland? That Irish monks were in North America centuries before Columbus? That wearing a moustache was punishable by death under the English penal laws? That the Irish were more fluent in Latin than in English? That it was unchivalrous to wage war before the enemy was ready? This is a big book, not a quick or easy read, but it can be read piecemeal. It covers a lot of ground, from Irish customs and costumes to arts and crafts, poetry, trade and manufacture, politics, laws, education, religion, monasticism, the status of women, etc. It could benefit from artful condensation and better organization. It may be too detailed for some readers. Bias? Yes, but it does not obscure the facts … or the fables.
An _excellent_ book for those wanting to get a broad overview of Irish history. I read this about ten years ago. I picked it up and 'only put it down to eat'. If you have any Irish blood, it'll leaving you feeling like a nationalist.
Beautiful book which I return to frequently
So this book was very well written in my opinion.The chapters were relatively short, which made reading a bit easier, and the breakdown of information could have been done a bit better, but this was overall a good book.There were a lot of parts that I knew (or knew variants of), which was nice for me to read and see a different perspective (albeit slightly) on these stories.
I started reading this book about 10 years ago, but never got past the first couple of chapters. I'm not sure why, but I think it had to do mainly with the author's stilted and grandiose language, making it seem more like a propaganda work (which it surely was, being written during the Irish Civil War) than a serious scholarly work. But with our return to Ireland for two weeks in 2008, I decided to give it another try.The ancient part of the history is pretty engrossing--tales of Cuchulainn and Irish knights and poets and kings and bards, all told in a high style that makes ancient Ireland seem like a fairytale idyll. The part dealing with the Norman invasion and Cromwell is gripping too, but the author's (understandably) anti-English bias starts to get in the way of the narrative at this point. This only gets worse as we read about the Famine, the Land Bill years, and finally the Easter Rising and formation of the Irish Free Street. For me, the last few chapters was a race to finish the story so I could get away from the jingoistic drumbeat of Irish moral superiority and victimhood (and I say this as a fan of most things Irish!).As a work of propaganda, this book is progressively heavy-handed and quaint, an early version of the art that was perfected later in the 20th Century by Goebbels and Mikhailov. As a history it is suspect but sufficient to whet the reader's appetite for more balanced works on the subject. It's also a great primer on Irish poetry and literature.
It begins with ancient oral history and ends in the 1920's. Beautiful written and comprehensive history of ancient Ireland to early 20th century Ireland and it's connection to much of the rest of the world. Ireland was invaded, but never conquered by any country except Brittan and even then the people were never conquered. The atrocities committed by those attempting to commit genocide is heart rending. Seumas MacManus tells Irish history from the heart of an Irishman. Everyone should read this book because without this knowledge what happened in Ireland will happen someplace else.
This book was written only 2 years after Ireland obtained its independence from Britain, and it loudly trumpets the greatness of Ireland's history. No attempt is made at objectivity. I respect his pride in all things Irish, and I believe he does a good job giving Ireland credit for much that had been long neglected. MacManus is a good story teller and Ireland has a grand story to tell. All in all a good read. My wife and I enjoyed seeing his house last summer near Donegal, which sparked our interest in this book.
This is an interesting book about the Celts, Picts, Romans Christians, everybody who ever was on the Isle of Erin!It reads like a textbook, and reminded me of several Middle English books I read during college. Not in a bad way, just not an easy read-informative. I liked the old Breton Lays included and the history of St. Patrick. But it took me forever to get through since it was more for informational purposes than pleasure. Well, written, long-winded and really interesting.
After two years of off and on reading this book I finally decided to just finish it! Despite being a history book it is an interesting read, especially for someone who knows their ancestors were Irish. I feel like this book opened my eyes to the hardships that the Irish have had to endure, and I wonder why their plight isn't taught hand-in-hand with the holocaust in school.
A great resource guide for little details.
Pedantic approach but intersting and complete history of the Irish People
A hard read, but worth it for the in-depth history.
This is series of 5 books edited by Colonel Arthur E. Powell. He very methodically combined information from a number of theosophical authors in the early part of the 20th century. These books are a wealth of esoteric information. They are more head centered than heart centered. However these books must be read in the following order: Etheric Double, Astral Body, Mental Body, Causal Body, and Solar System. Each builds on the last. Although not all are mentioned in Goodreads, I recommend ordering the Quest book editions. You can get them on Amazon or from Quest Books.First published in 1925 this book covers everything you ever wanted to know about the etheric double and its chakras. The only objection I have to this book is the substitution of the spleen chakra for the sacral chakra. I think this was because these people were raised in Victorian times. According to the Tibetan (Alice Bailey) both chakras exist.
I enjoyed reading every chapter. The insights were amazing. Impact on my healing approaches are yet to be explored. I definitely appreciate the teachings of my Guru with greater respect and gratitude.I liked the chapter on Death the most. The Inner reflection technique from Master Choa is such an impacting method to prepare for the best moment of life.
This book is one of a series each unit of which deals specifically with one of the bodies of humans and other beings as seen from the common "esoteric" perspective; ie, the etheric body, astral body, mental body, and causal body/ego. The author, A. E. Powell has drawn from sources associated with the Theosophical Society, primarily Annie Besant and C.W. Leadbeater, and describes his work as a compilation from many sources for the convenience of the student. Those who are unfamiliar with the ideas and terminology of Theosophy may meet with some difficulty when they encounter "Great outpourings", "Logoi" and the like, but the information is well organized, practical and fascinating nonetheless. The etheric double is the body of vitality amd electro-magnetism of a being, being composed of prana, bio-plasma, chi, or whatever you wish to name it. It is the health aura. Healers and yogis, therefore, will especially find this book useful. One useful understanding I gained was a reinforcement of the notion that one could approach consciousness from the form side, or the body.The book was published in 1925 and since then research in this field has progressed quite a bit; nonetheless, this book is a quick, interesting and useful read based on clairvoyant observations and the knowledge of the Theosophy school and so is not so subject to time as a ny times bestseller.
I've read this masterpiece and this become my turning point, i never been the same.
My third time reading this, but there's always something (or rather, a lot of things) to talk/write about this book.As a novelette - as modern novelettes go - this isn't particularly outstanding. The plotline is nothing special; the main character Hidjo disappears for a large part of the book. But the moment you get to Chapter XVII, that's when you know that this was a socio-political critique disguised as a novel.That aside, this time around I was intrigued by the description of the atmosphere of the Sarekat Islam vergaderinig (rally - the Dutch was used instead of rapat in Bahasa Indonesia) in Solo, from the perspective of the priyayi class, which means there was an interesting omission of any voices from the commoners class.
Too many unexplained side story, this book is not adequate for my taste.
I don't get it. Is it a love story with some political aspect or is it a politically-charged writing with some love intrigues (if it can be called an intrigue)? The love story is very lame. The political part springs up from nowhere going nowhere.The editing is extremely poor and the translation the most horrible of them all. I never have any formal education of Javanese languange, but I know much better than to translate "idep dekeng" as "alis yang melengkung". I'm contemplating....should I go ahead and accuse that they just plug in the text to Google Translator?A total waste of time.
GOOD BOOK
The narrator finally starts to go out into society and his reflections on it are as intriguing as his descriptions of nature, if not more so. Though the endless opinions on the Dreyfuss affair get tedious, I surprised myself being sucked in by Saint-Loup's long description of military strategy as art, (and wondered how many modern generals would dare philosophize in such a way).My favorite passage is towards the beginning where the narrator describes sound as incessant noise, then muffled sound as though everything is far away, and then deafness, with the culminating image of a building collapsing silently to ruins. Breathtaking!This is only the first half of Le côté de Guermantes and it ends rather abruptly, making it hard not to slip right to part II. (My towering to-be-read-pile has other ideas...)
This installment is, at first, a little difficult to get into, what with the abundance of military jargon and the dour environment, but it is also the more compelling of the books so far. We see Christopher drawn deeper into despair by his wife Sylvia (probably one of the most evil, heartless characters I have read), suffering all the more cruelly because of his upstanding morals and good nature, and also by having a man die in his arms during a raid. It is Sylvia's scheming that may, in the end, get him killed as he is sent to the front line as a consequence. In this book we see Sylvia's Catholic guilt over her past affairs, stating that the Virgin Mary's child had no father, whilst her's has two. It's as if by forcing Christopher to have an affair, she can clear her own feelings of guilt. It just so happens that she also can't bear any other woman to have him. I loved the character development in this part and was saddened by the entire situation. Looking forward to reading on!...
I found the beginning to be confusing, following Tietjen's train of thought and conversations was difficult with them being so disjointed and repetetive but I understand Ford's reasoning behind it. It gives the impression of trauma and shell-shock, leaving you as confused and frustrated as the sufferers. Sylvia Tietjen's character is complex and difficult. She doesn't seem to know what she wants or how she feels. She makes assumptions about her husband he makes them about her but they lack the honesty needed to bring them together. We get clarity into their situation as their past is explained, along with their relationships but there are times when Ford expects you to discern understanding from what he has said, without making it explicit. It turned out to be an interesting read, without the story really going anywhere, and I'm not interested to read the next book in this trilogy. And maybe the first.
Book two of Parade's End was a little hard to get into at first. As the story begins, Tietjens is in a hut with several other soldiers as shells are falling. A runner that Tietjens sends out comes back wounded and dies in his arms. He is haunted by this death, thinking he is to blame. In the middle of all that, Tietjens is made aware that his wife has come. She is desperate to raise some emotion or reaction from him and plans another disastrous situation with her lover, Perowne, that leads to his being disgraced and transferred to the front as the book concludes.
Deservedly acknowledged as one the major British novels of the inter war years. As a reader you are engrossed in the subtlety and refinement of the psychological portraits of the likable/unsufferable Tietjens, his deadly beautiful psychopath wife Sylvia and the supporting cast of characters. With the ominous backdrop of the WW1 Western Front drawing closing in you witness high drama and fate on a Greek tragedy scale.
Creating a 'good' character is difficult and the hero of Ford's novels is just that. Tietjens has plenty of faults but a remarkable ability to bring the best out of people (with the exception of his wife) under the worst circumstances. The part of the book set in the trenches is one of the very best and most unusual treatments of World War One that I have read. I think the novels are seriously underrated.
Some of the chapters in this book were so long. It hurt. As a whole...this book is still awesome. Tietjens remains an intriguing character...as does Sylvia. And I can't wait to get to the next one. (Sort of...I need a break though).Excellent book though. Just exhausting.
Phew. 900 plus pages of exquisite,complex prose and quite possibly the most unpleasant character ever created in literature in Sylvia Tjetiens. Wonderful...
At 90% finished I start this review. This second part of the "Parade's End" tetralogy is as well written as the first part. The author gives the information about the events bit by bit, often in the thoughts of the characters. And his characters are strongly developed. Take Sylvia, the estranged wife of Tietjens. She is the most terrible person I ever read about. You have to read the other two books, was it only to know how she ends up.Sadly I am not at all familiar with the army and customs within the army at all, so especially the first part was difficult to get through at times. But this can of course not be a reason to give this book a lower rating. This definitely must be a four star rating. Maybe one of the last two books in will even reach five stars.In the last chapter Tietjens has a long conversation with General Campion, who is his Godfather also. Some things become clear, but why the atitude of Tietjens towards his wife is as it is, remains a mystery to me, and probably also to Tietjens. You definitely need to read the whole tetralogy.
Perhaps the most challenging of the sequence, in terms of modernist difficulty as well as emotional anguish, but more than worth the effort: a book about the Great War should be painful, right?
A very interesting book, and somewhat different from the other John Buchan books I have recently read. This is actually a series of stories, loosely connected, starting in Scotland before the Normans arrived and involving the people who where in conflict with their Scandinavian cousins. It ends in America with the aftermath of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. In the journey from the start to the end we visit various historical events and figures, such as France and Joan of Arc.I found the trip a very interesting one, especially for the author's take on events of the times and the characters involved. I am glad I added this book to the list of those of his that I have read. This version was an eBook downloaded from Project Gutenberg and read with Cool Reader on a Sony Xperia Z1 Compact.
Some stories better than others, but on the whole, very good.
What a charming little read...by a nine year old...for adults. The story, in addition to charming, is also funny at times...along with the spelling. I mean she was nine years old.This is not a book for children even though it was written by one. It is a romance / society book. I'm very glad I took the time to read these 77 pages.
Oh, what a queer little delight I just read. To all of you whining writers, this book was written by a nine-year-old and stood the test of time. You know why? It's pure story, from start to finish. Read it to study it and have a good laugh and a grin on your face when you're finished. (It will take you about an hour.)
A nine-year-old with published book is the stuff of legend. But Daisy Ashford did it in the 1890s. The Young Visiters is very funny and very mature and well done for such a young child. She was clearly advanced for her age and had read many books herself. Everyone should read it at least once.
Hilarious! Written by a 9-year-old who is clearly influenced by the Victorian era and literature she had been reading. I read it for my Classic Juvenile Fantasy Literature class which mostly looks at literature written "for children," by adults, but this book seems to do the opposite. Or at least, it is the only book we cover that is written by a child. It can be read in less than an hour and is kind of cute, since it keeps her punctuation and spelling. At times I was amazed by words she chose to use because they were ones I would never think to use in writing. In a way, it seems like she has been bred to believe in certain ideals and it is interesting to see it come out in her story, but she also provides a refreshing and child-like view of the relationships she discusses.
Thanks to my friend Kim and Project Gutenberg I was able to read The Young Visiters this afternoon. I chuckled my way through it, impressed at the young Daisy's humour and wide range of vocabulary. I thought her spelling errors were rarther darling. I wish I had been that awesome as a nine year old.
I've read all of Jane Austen's juvenilia and enjoyed them very much. The Young Visitors also is a peace of juvenilia. Daisy Ashford wrote it when she was nine and re-discovered it several years later. It was then published almost exactly as it had been written.It should better have stayed hidden in the drawer. It is fairly obvious why Ms Austen became a famous writer and we didn't hear anything from Ms Ashford again.
I've just re-read this. The Posy Simmonds illustrated edition with a different version of the text and explanatory notes. I just love it. I love it more than I did the first time I read it. Maybe because I now have children aged 10 and 11 and have a better idea of how astonishing a feat it was for a nine year old to write it. It's not just Daisy's ability to craft a story and describe a party scene, dialogue, a love scene, and so on; it's her acute observations of the culture and class structure of her time. While some of the observations indicate her natural naivety, others seem astonishingly far from naive! And the fact that she can enter into the feelings and thoughts of different characters, many of them adult men, is similarly remarkable. Posy Simmonds' illustrations are an absolute delight.
Hilarious, unintentionally so, for the most part, but one suspects that some of the humour was utterly intended; and that the young authoress (only nine years when she penned this story) might have gone on to become a successful and perhaps even renowned novelist had she persisted with her hobby of writing fiction.The opening line is a classic. "Mr. Salteena was an elderly man of 42..."Everything about this book is funny, charming, strange, incredible, but also accomplished to an extraordinary degree considering how young Daisy Ashford was when it was written. Many of us tried to write novels when we were of a similar age; but how many of us actually finished the works in question? Very few of us indeed, I suspect.The illustrations in this edition are excellent too.
This was hilarious.
A must read for everyone.
So easy going - and then wham!Quentin Tarantino could learn a lot from E M Forster. He'd learn that there's no need to pile on the menace in the early stages. The shock, when it comes is much more effective if the reader/viewer has been led into thinking all is ordinary and relatively safe. Forster is a master story teller, and a true philosopher as well.
The one word that kept coming to mind as I read this and even after I finished, is: "Remarkable".Honestly, even if I had never been told that E. M. Forster is one of those legendary greats, as mysterious as he is beloved, I would point to his writing and say the same damn thing.I'm genuinely awed.Beyond simple, clear prose, I was enraptured by the humor and odd observations in the dialogues, the irony of Colonial England ladies wanting to see "The Real India", or the great way that every single character is painted without bias or slant. It's definitely a humanist novel. But beyond that, for a novel out of 1925 and dealing with the heart of English occupation of India and the enormous prejudices and idiocies on BOTH sides of the debate, I'm flabbergasted with the number of courageous turns and observations. It's not just a condemnation of the occupation, but there's plenty of that. It's about ignorance across the board, about true friendship, understanding and, of course, rampant misunderstanding.India is painted in a gloriously chaotic fashion and England as is stolid, claustrophobic self, but there's lots of humor and heart and simple plain erroneous humanity on both sides.Don't mistake my ramblings as a description of a travel tale. Misfortunes abound and innocent people's lives are or are nearly ruined. Who's to blame? Everyone. Is it a comedy? Yes. Is it tragic? Yes. Is it thoughtful and emotional and wise? Yes. What really stuck with me was the preoccupation with the idea of marriage. Not actual marriage, but the perception of it. So many faults and accidents and a weight of tradition conspired to make a real hash out of the MC's engagement. But what made this novel brilliant was the way it perfectly dovetailed and highlighted, or was reverse-highlighting the reality of the English Occupation.Marriage and occupation are so VERY alike, are they not? And Forster is no slouch on any front. He's clever and wide-ranging with his portrayals of women. Each is as different as can be. The good, the bad, and everything in-between. :) Like anyone. But the important bit is WHEN this came out. It's no knee-jerk reaction to women's right's movements. It's just seeing them with clear eyes. Or seeing the people of India the same way, for that matter. :)But again, don't let me persuade you that this is all the novel is about. These are just a few tastes to a VERY rich and remarkable novel. :) I think I could read it 4 or 5 times and still find new gems or facets inside it. :)
This book is a classic peace of literature. It describes the differences in the western mindset and the eastern way of thought. It shows how there are similarities in the two cultures of England and India. There are marked differences in the religeons of Hindoism, Budism, Islam, Christianity and intellectualism. I recommend this book highly to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
When I first picked up this book, I was 13, and expecting to be insulted by some white guys going on about how barbaric my culture and history were and how the magnanimous British civilized us all. I was, thankfully, wrong.It follows Mr Fielding, Miss Adela, and Mrs Moor as they come to tour India. They are shown about by Dr Aziz, a poor Muslim, and Adela's fiance Mr Moor. The basic storyline is one of Adela and Mrs Moor touring India, but then Adela eventually convicts Dr Aziz of sexual harassment which he denies.However, the book has much more heart. It delicately shows the impossibility of the British and Indians reconciling through the fading friendship between this group of people. It explores beliefs and meaningfulness. It explains how impossible it is for the white men to fully understand India and its people. It just seems to involve every possible perspective on colonial India in rich, resonant detail. Forster writes with an almost native understanding of the Indian subcontinent. It is a very very sensitive and poignant portrayal of India and is written with an unbiased honesty. While the British are shown as the more cultured, they are also haughty, foolish and greedy. While the Indians are shown as warm, family-loving and hospitable beings their tendencies to be crude, quarrelsome and religiously divisive are highlighted as well. Through this setting traverse three characters new to India- and their fresh perspective adds a new and naive point of view to the book. I highly recommend it for anyone.
The India of Forster’s imagination is a vast, incoherent land of hostile earth and oppressive air; the weather, inhospitable to human life; the sun, a burning, penetrating force that crushes the soul; in the distance, sand, fields, bushes, more sand, more bushes, all indecipherable, all impenetrable to human reason. The mind boggles at the immensity and confusion of India, at the distant mountains, at the strange religions, at the endless tracts of land blending with the gray and threatening sky. This is a landscape of dreams and terrors. It is unreal, but not romantic - a land of deceit, irrationality, vague but persistent danger. Tempted here by mirages, the British have built their colony on a foundation of sand and it must soon crumble. But behind these fragments of visions, shimmering in the background as if through a hazy gauze at a glimpse at the true, permanent world, lie the Marabar Caves. They are present, but shadowy, just out of reach. What is inside those caves? The answer? The soul of India itself? Or something else? Why do the caves remain in the mind like an echo, as they do to poor Adela? I am haunted by the Marabar Caves, as Adela was haunted by them, as Mrs. Moore was haunted by them. They expand in my imagination, they beckon and seem to explain, and yet I cannot enter. The cavern dims and darkens as it curves away into the mountain, beyond my ken. The Marabar Caves are the key to the meaning of this novel, just as their counterpart in our collective unconscious is the key to understanding human existence, but that key, like the rest of India, is beyond my understanding. What Forster has achieved here is a brilliant evocation of India as conjured by the hopes and fears of the British imagination. It is one of the most striking environments I have ever encountered in a novel. It seems to embody everything that Britain opposes - emotion, chaos, incomprehensibility - in contrast to Britain's self-perception of orderliness, control, reason, and duty. It is a canvas on which the English mind can display its deepest anxieties. Forster captures those anxieties with uncommon force. And, to play on that wondrous stage, Forster has supplied an equally stellar cast of characters, to enact the greater drama of the British Raj's influence on the people of both England and India. Dr. Aziz is amiable and proud, and deeply invested in ingratiating himself to his British masters, but he is also self-conscious and anxious. He reaches heights of happiness and expectation and then plunges into anger and resentment, all within a matter of moments, a product of having assimilated the slave mentality, which affects his every move and thought. Fielding is the Principal of a British school in India, benevolent, rational, without family ties, and desirous to befriend Aziz to separate himself from what he perceives to be the racism and ignorance of his fellow countrymen. He wants to prove he can be friends with an Indian. Dr. Aziz wants to prove he can be friends with a Brit. The relationship they form is remarkable for its subtlety and its truthfulness, and remains surprising right to the end of the novel. Then there’s Adela, who accuses Aziz of attacking her in the Marabar cave, but we know this isn't true. Something else happened. But what? And Ronny, her fiancee, is the casually pompous British Magistrate of the city of Chandrapore who would like nothing better than to have all these Indians whipped. And then there’s Mrs. Moore, Adela’s traveling companion, who is utterly destroyed by her own experience in the Caves. I loved Mrs. Moore. Her transformation after the caves is devastating. And I felt for Adela. On the stand, at the trial, she does a selfless and honourable thing, and it made me so glad. Dr. Aziz's transformation after the trial is unspeakably sad, but absolutely realistic. I despised Ronny, but ultimately pitied him, for how can he be expected to escape the social and political forces that forged him? See? These people were real to me. They are fascinating, believable, unforgettable. The prose of this novel is scintillating. It is intensely ironic in tone, and satirical, but it also has a strangely suggestive side, enigmatic, mysterious, hinting at things unsaid that stick into the mind like an icicle, or opening vistas of possibility one can only see as through a haze. It weaves in and out of these modes with an astounding level of finesse and control, from satirical to funny to poetic and back again, insinuating secrets, dancing impishly, but never allowing us to forget, not for long, the mystery at the center of all things, the Marabar Caves. The question is not merely, what happened in those caves? But rather, what are the caves? And what is India? And what is human existence? Is there hope, and meaning, and purpose? Is there a purpose to the British Empire? Is there a purpose to human connection? Is there a purpose to empathy and understanding? Or is it all merely an endless echo in a dark cave, BOUM? All these questions, it seems to me, are the same question, the question that drives the engine of this novel, and indeed all examinations of why greater powers have always seen fit to oppress, manipulate, and exploit the weaker. Don’t be turned off by the false sense, because it is a "classic," that this is some slow, dreary work. It isn’t. It’s alive, extremely entertaining. And mysterious. That was the biggest surprise - the uncanny, amazing feeling running through the entire text that there are deeper forces at work, that there are answers to the human conundrum just out of our line of sight, just around the bend of the cave. It’s about the British Raj and human beings and the (im)possibility of human connections, and it is one of the best novels I have ever read. Highly recommended.
3.5 stars rounded up because I recognize the importance of this work as part of the literary canon I just didn't love it. This is my 3rd book by E.M. Forster and my least favorite. I had a hard time getting into this. To be honest I found the beginning to be a bit of a slog and if I hadn't been reading this as part of a challenge I may not have finished it. BUT, I'm really glad I did because it all comes together nicely in the end. I listened to the audio which was a good choice for me. It pulled me through the more (to me) tedious parts. At the start there are many many characters to keep track of and I found it hard to form any relationships with them. I really liked the way the author showed both sides of the conflict. I also really enjoyed the absolutely gorgeous depictions of India. I'm looking forward to reading more by this author.
The beginning of this book is beautiful, brilliant and odd. It was teased at the end of The Guermantes Way, when the narrator waits for Mme de Guermantes to get back he tells us he sees something, but that he’ll have to wait to describe it. His description starts off this part of the story. What he sees is Baron de Charlus and Jupien flirting and engaging in intercourse. The narrator first sees them conversing before they enter Jupiens building. The narrator follows. He can’t see them, but he can hear everything that goes on. The description of Charlus and Jupien is intertwined with Marcel describing a flower and how it requires a bee to reproduce. It’s a surreal and very delicate chapter of the story, and obviously essential to everything that comes after. Here the narrator is for the first time exposed to inversion, as Proust calls it. He suddenly realizes Charlus engages in homosexual activities (and certain events from the past start to make sense). The narrator then attends a party at the Princess de Guermantes place and Swann makes his last appearance before dying. The whole party is a strange experience, everything is constantly shifting, people don’t finish their sentences, and the Dreyfuss Affair is turning everything upside down again, with those against Dreyfuss slowly losing power and those for Dreyfuss gaining it. There’s a sort of social inversion taking place. During Marcel’s conversation with Swann, Swann asks him an interesting question: he asks if he’s ever been jealous. Marcel answers no, that he hasn’t, although this is only almost true. He did feel jealousy and love when he courted Gilberte, but he won’t feel the full force of it until his affair with Albertine. In a sense, this is Swann passing the torch of unbearable, jealous love on to Marcel, who will carry it fiercly and for a long time. This volume also contains one of my very favorite parts of the entire In Search of Lost Time: Marcel remembering his grandmother. As you’ll remember his grandmother passed away during The Guermantes Way, and though her death devastated his mother, Marcel himself seemed almost unaffected by it. Then he travels to Balbec for the second time, and while staying at the same hotel, the night of arriving, he suddenly rediscovers his grandmother in his memory. She comes back to him, as alive and wonderful and full of love as she was when she was alive. And Marcel mourns, finally. For a while he can do nothing but live in his grief, he remembers, thinks and dreams of her. He imagines her alive again, he marvels at the wonders of memory, that she could come to him as alive as ever. This is when he finally understands she’s really dead. For Marcel, people don’t die when they stop breathing, when their bodies start decaying, when they take their final breath, no, for Marcel they only die when he finds them again in his memory. Later, with Albertine, this thought, this way of grieving, is giving much more space and thought. But I loved this part. It was sorrowful, beautiful and tender.
Sodome et Gomorrhe by Marcel ProustAs mentioned in my previous notes, “reviews” on A La Recherche du Temps Perdu, Proust is my Favorite, Number One of All Time writer. When I discovered him, some thirty years ago, homosexuality was an alien thing. It still is, in the sense that I am not attracted to men, but in the meantime I have learned more about this minority and, more important here, about Proust. At the time when I had my first encounter with Sodome et Gomorrhe, I did not know Proust was gay. It seemed rather strange that he knows so much about men who recognize each other in the blink of an eye, but now I can see why Proust is so knowledgeable. As he says, we change; we are in fact two different people at two stages in life. My perspective on Sodome et Gomorrhe changed dramatically; in fact, I have a different view on Proust. I remembered now that I was not keen on the subject of this novel and happy that the book is so complex and treats so many subjects in such an exquisite way.Romania gets mentioned with its queen, her pen name being Carmen Silva. Then there is the fact that a French writer is known in Romania as an aristocrat and not so much for his work. The only less gratifying phrases are those that deal with names of villages, places which do not turn me on. The other …. fact is that, though repelling in a few ways, some characters are fascinating and I find them entertaining, complex, very interesting: Charlus for instance, although vain, pompous, arrogant, mean, patronizing is one of the most memorable characters I have read about.
Thank you Mr. Thompson, my high school librarian, for another amazing book that I have now read with all my children! I have a 1919 edition, rebound in 1945. The books of James Willard Schultz deserve more attention than they get. Do I wish it ended differently? Yes! But the cultural depictions--the societies (such as the seizers), the religious beliefs, the way of seeing the world--are amazing. This book tells the legendary story of a girl who broke the strong social expectations of her Blackfeet tribe and became a leading warrior. It is a balance of romance, adventure, and war--something for everyone.
Enjoyable World War I morality tale.
Politics, Nations, Wilson & Congress...This is a single transcript of the act Rogers performed during the period immigrants following WWI . Wilson was in Europe, trying to get an Armistice signed AND trying to set up the "League of Nations". He was having the same luck with Republicans in Congress as Obama...It is amazing: few things have really changed since 1918 in politics, between nations, or Congress. The names have changed, but the arguments remain the same! This is a fairly short act, Rogers must have been doing a lot of rope twirling. The spelling in the transcript is spotty, but only a few references are obscured by time. Highly Recommended
I had high hopes for this book and most of them were dashed.
very good
This is sort of a survey of numerous poets with mini bios and snippets of poets work...no I didn't read the whole thing, but I'd love to have this handy. Especially for pulling out poems to introduce to students. And looking at all of these great poets, guess who REALLY stands out? All of the bios talk about how each of these poets did something DIFFERENT, but T.S. Eliot is the one who really stands out. He was amazing. I forgot.
I bought this for $1 at The Strand. Not so new or modern anymore, having last been updated in 1939, but still a lot of well-known and some more obscure (to me, anyway) writers. Plenty to love if you enjoy poetry as I do!
Read as a child but picked it up again as an adult. It is still wonderful after all these years. This was the book that got me interested in poetry.
This may be my favorite book of all time. At any rate, it's definitely on the top ten list and by far my favorite Hemingway (and I do love some Hemingway). The first time I read this, I loved Lady Brett Ashley. Is she a bitch? Sure, but I don't think she ever intentionally sets out to hurt anyone. And it might be argued that she has reason to be one: her first true love dies in the war from dysentery (not exactly the most noble of deaths) and she's physically threatened by Lord Ashley, forced to sleep on the floor beside him and his loaded gun (and let's clarify that,no, that's not a euphemism, just in case you're a perv). Then we have the one man who might make her happy, Jake Barnes. Poor, poor Jake, who doesn't have a gun, let alone a loaded one (yup, that's a euphemism--snicker away). I think Brett is one of the most tragic figures in American literature. Disillusioned by the war and how it irrevocably changed her life, she tries to fill the void with alcohol and sex--and destroys herself in the process. However, upon rereading the novel, I realized how eclipsed Jake had been by Brett during my first reading. I also realized how I had misinterpreted him during my first reading. I thought Jake was as lost as the rest of the "Lost Generation," but I now believe that he is the only one who is not lost (with the exception of Bill Gorton, whose line "The road to hell paved with unbought stuffed dogs" may be my favorite in the book). If there's anyone with reason to give up on life, it's Jake. Does he pine for Brett? Yes. Does he come to hate Cohn for his affair with Brett? Affirmative. Does he get over Brett and realize that, even if properly equipped for a sexual relationship, a relationship with her would end as tragically as all of her other conquests? Abso-damn-lutely. After all, Brett is Circe, according to Cohn, and anyone lured into her bed will lose their manhood. The success of the relationship between Brett and Jake hinges on the fact that Jake literally has nothing to lose in this respect. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder
There will always be a special place in my heart for this book. It's easily one of my favorite books of all time. Definitely my favorite Hemingway book (it's quite different from the rest). No, it's not perfect. Yes, it gets a bit boring in the middle when its main focus is on bull fighting. But for the most part, the story is funny and wonderful and quite touching. The dialogue is so alive, it practically has a pulse. Nobody writes dialogue like that anymore. It's snappy, fast, witty, honest... and there's a lot of it. I could read chapters 3 and 4 of this book every day for the rest of my life and not get tired of them because of how much I love the dialogue and the character interactions. The characters are fantastic and entertaining to boot. Even the less likeable ones are quite amusing. And I just love the chemistry between Jake and Brett. So well written. When you watch a movie, it's easy to detect if the characters/actors have good chemistry or not because it tends to be more of a physical thing. But in a book, it's not so easy. And they aren't an obvious match either. Jake is kind of that typical, cool guy from back in the day with a sarcastic attitude who dishes out sarcastic one-liners like a pro. Brett is a beautiful, sophisticated woman who, on the surface is the outgoing sort who eats up her wild party life and loves the attention it brings her. She loves to be doted on and seems to live her life like she must be out and about at all times, doing fun things. But there's more depth to her than that, and for the most part, you only see it when she's with Jake. Especially when she's alone with Jake. Which only happens a few brief times in the story. Then you realize, hmm...maybe her outgoing ways are really more of purposeful distraction. I love tragic love stories. When two people feel a deep, heartbreaking love for one another, yet can never truly be together. At least not in the way they want. Not in this lifetime, due to their particular circumstances. In this case, she's married. He's handicapped. Yet, their madly in love (which is obvious, without either of them ever actually saying so to one another or anyone else for that matter), even if they aren't brave enough to do anything about it, so they settle for friendship and do their best to distract themselves with reality, so they don't have to think about it. That's real life. It happens all the time. I could easily feel the sexual tension between Brett and Jake whenever they were together on the page. And that's because of how it was written. Their connection wasn't shoved down my throat. It was in their body language, and most of all, what they didn't say. But sometimes it was what they did say. And that was always perfect too. It was always, just enough to convey their emotions. Lots of subtlety and talking their way around the emotional elephant in the room, which is always a good thing in my opinion. Also, I love love love the ending. Love the last two or three pages. Love the last paragraph. Love the last line. It may not be a storybook happy ending, but if I wrote this book, it's exactly how I would have ended it too. So much left unsaid. So much beautiful sadness lingering in the air between them. And even right before that, when they are sitting down to have wine/lunch together, nervously fumbling over their words in the last couple pages... don't even get me started. There's so much heartache on display in that one scene (despite them both acting very upbeat), without the characters uttering a single word about how they actually feel. Again, so true to life! I completely understand why people might not agree with me on any or even most of what I've said in this review. I've read plenty of bad reviews for this book. But for those who do... For those who have been there and experienced a taste of this in your own life... Then you know where I'm coming from. There's real love in this story. And love can be sad. And it can be beautiful. And sometimes it's both. And that is what this book captures perfectly. Hemingway's debut novel (written in 1926!), and for me, he never wrote a better one. It feels very fresh, exciting and independent like when Quentin Tarantino released "Reservoir dogs" and "Pulp Fiction" in the 90's. Or a french new wave movie from the 60's such as Godard's "Pierrott Le fou."So for anyone who has tried to read Hemingway in the past and just couldn't get into his stories, I don't blame you at all. He's one of my favorite authors, but his books are not the easiest to read. Particularly his heavier books like, "For whom the bell tolls." He has a few that I just can't get through because I lose interest. But don't let that stop you from giving this one a shot. It's unlike anything else that he ever wrote. And if it's not for you, then no big deal. There's a million other books to read. But if it is, I promise you won't ever forget it.
I gave this one star because I wasn't old enough to drink or really enjoy much of anything when I first read it, and I haven't read it again since.I'm almost certain I'd still hate it though.
Every book I read for school is depressing.
I'm haunted by the scene of Wing Biddlebaum as a small, white, pitiful figure being chased through the field in the stark darkness.
5 short but gripping pages.
Solid detective fiction.
I know that Hammett and Chandler are classic detective writers. I'm not sure it was so great that I decided to read one from each of these authors at the same time. Besides confusing the main characters and the plots as I read, I saw only Humphrey Bogart as the lead in both of the books. There are some wonderful turns of phrase but I just wasn't pulled into the plot as much as I would have liked to have been. Still, I'm glad to have read it.
Wonderful!
Pretty wonderful book about Auroville's other founder, The Mother...a beautiful woman.
"So Little book, So Much Inspiration"
There is many levels to this piece and multiple reading gives me different levels of understanding.
Outstanding commentary!
So glad I decided to read my grandmother's book. I think if he were to update it today, there would be changes, but the core is well-explained and outlined. Educational and inspiring.
Very good!
Studying the book of Revelation was the best study I have done. This book was absolutely the best study tool. Powerful. This is one I will go over again. This is not a book you can just breeze through. It is a lot of clarity and understanding to take it.
a well written book for sure. the author's credit lies in the excellent description of bullfighting furnished. however, paradoxically, in my perception, Manuel (the central protagonist) hardly qualified for the designation of a hero, his pluck notwithstanding. bullfighting is an extremely gruesome and inhuman sport to say the least. i wonder how people derive any pleasure from such atrocities against and innocent animal. provoking and abusing!!! is that sports???!!! i personally thought that the real hero of the story was the bull. he was 1 against a team of about 8 men comprising the banderillos, picadors, matadors etc but quite remarkably despite the constant onslaughts of cruel weapons, the bull kept going. there was fight left in this brave beast right till the end. no matter how injured, he did not give up. that's what the mettle of a hero ought to signify....to see a fight right through to the end. kudos to the indomitable Campagnero!
Fantastic story. As some of the other reviewers have pointed out, yes bullfighting is a brutal sport and the young man isn’t exactly a hero, but neither of those observations get at the point of this story. This is a great example of Hemingway’s brutal and direct tone expressed through a story about struggle for all parties involved. It’s harsh and sad, but it says somethings about life. It’s the ugliness of it all that makes it so beautiful and compelling.
The text felt very real. I have watched a few bull fights just to see what's up on youtube, which made me feel disgusting. This short story made me feel the same. Still, it's well written, but I have issues with the content on a moral level, I guess.
Very dry and scholarly. Didn't finish.
This book was a big disappointment. Basically, it serves as an excuse for the author to nerd out over the achievements of various 12th century people. There is very little attempt to create an overall holistic picture of what intellectual life looked like in the 12th century or why a "renaissance" occurred in this time period (versus say the 11th or 13th centuries).
ES.O.TER.IC! (I got the book from my former mentor and French professor for whom the book was part of her Ph.D. studies.)But fascinating. And the language of it is delightful (written in the 1920s). Lots of "thrice"s and "thence"s and other interesting words I had to look up (which doesn't happen much to me anymore, with English anyway).
The Blessing Pan is one of those ambiguously fantastic novels in which it's never quite clear whether the magic is taking place in reality or in the minds of the characters. Elderick Anwrel, a nineteenth-century Anglican priest, finds that his parishioners have started to worship Pan, Greek god of shepherds. His struggle to win them back to the fold forms an epic novel of spiritual warfare.Lord Dunsany's writing is dense and rich, and readers used to contemporary fantasy may find The Blessing of Pan very slow-paced. The 'action' is definitely more metaphysical and mental than physical- Anwrel's struggle with Pan takes place mainly in agonised conversations and soul-searching. But it's definitely a very rewarding book to the persevering reader.An ambivalent, thought-provoking story about the needs of community versus individual conscience, industrialisation versus the wilderness and faith versus cynicism.
Interesting and significantWhile not Whitehead's best work, his distinction between two modes of perception is groundbreaking and highly significant for anyone interested in aesthetics, art, and culture.
Highly recommended, in these trying times of blatant propaganda spewage.
Alfred North whitehead is one of my intellectual heros. This book was interesting, but I was hoping for more of Alfred the mathematician to come out. Instead, he wrote like a true philosopher: eloquent, but opaque. Many of his ideas could have benefited from clarification and more examples. Nevertheless, I think his ideas about symbolism and the nature of experience were very illuminating. I definitely found myself sympathizing with his analysis.
Interesting and well written, it's a bit confusing though as Les Faux-monnayeurs is often completely different from what's described here.
I loved this. I think it is important and good to see the creative process and the struggle that most often comes with trying to make a good piece and as someone who -attempts to- write-s it's also very comforting.I think it is true for me also that I begin with a certain idea and when I'm finished, even if I may get to the point I wanted to reach, my character's have generally taken me on a very different road than that that I expected. This is for anyone who likes to think about how books are written. + it is very short.
Only liked one poem in the whole book and even then my like isn't very strong.
I wasn't fond of the overall organization of the book.
Not as profound as what I was expecting, based on his other writing.
The protagonist in this book made me nervous.
Probably the best French surrealist novel that I've read.
I believe the most beautiful text of surrealism.
Sometimes I can’t tell whether it’s the author or me, the reader, who cools down with the second book in a series. Although enlightening, this volume offers a little less in terms of story line and purpose of the protagonist other than witness. Still worth the read and has a valuable message but it’s a story of fiction all the same and this one lacks the structure needed to carry a readers interest through.
I enjoyed all six books of this series. The are mind expanded and I have refereed back to them on many occasions. They are a permanent members of my library and I recommend them to anyone looking for who and what they are.
Another great storyI have learned a lot about ancient civilizations by reading this book. The story is easy to follow and understand. Highly recommended for anyone interested in the mystical.
this series of books are an amazing ride. so interesting, so enlightening. you MUST read them!
Young Anne published in 1927 is Dorothy Whipple's first novel.A lovely coming of age story that is based on Dorothy's own first twenty years of life.Funny and heart breaking, a must read for all Dorothy Whipple fans.
Quite lovely.
Possibly my favourite Whipple to date! Loved the autobiographical nature of Anne's childhood (which matched up almost perfectly to The Other Day) - only wish I could know how much of the rest resembles Whipple's own life! Why Persephone Books haven't re-released this yet I have no idea! It is utterly charming (as all her books are!) and made me laugh out loud and cry in turn. The perfect Sunday read.
A lovely read. It felt like a period novel written today, so it was wonderful to remember that Dorothy Whipple’s modern-feeling insights into women’s lives are actually completely of their time. I’m off to find more of her work!
Her first novel, so not as accomplished as her later work. Many of the same themes, young women dissatisfied with their lives, a distain for social climbers, the emergence of women as a new class of workers and consumers in WWI and between the wars. Her usual lovely characterization, though sometimes her language seems a bit studied. But first novels are like first children- one tries so hard to get everything right and somehow always overdo it.
Cezar Petrescu was a very prolific romanian author, but there are few works that stand out with "Intunecare" taking the lead on my opinion. It is a novel about the horrible effects of war against humans and how can they decay. As any great novel, it gently touches lots of areas such as love, betrayal, politics, social etc. Highly recommended!
Read all these as a kid. Fun to read again. Difference in language used since this was written in 1920's. Grey Dawn was one of my favorites.
Do remember this one, loved it!
I read this book for the first time probably around fifty years ago, smitten as a kid with an obsession with all things Terhune. In my recent reaquaintance with his writings and life, chiefly through The Sunnybank Memorial group and their yearly gatherings at Sunnybank, I have decided to re-read the old Terhune classics. Gray Dawn did not disappoint. In his rather archaic prose, Terhune tells the story of a bumptious clown of a dog, who underneath his bumbling, possesses the classic Terhune-esque perfection of heart and soul and courage which separates him from the average dog. This book was written in decidedly non-politically-correct style, but possesses the old magic that draws out the dog-crazy youngster still within me.
These books are some of my all-time favorites.
Ahh.. What a pleasure it is to give this bk a good review! The 1st bk I read of Traven's was probably "The Death Ship" - wch details the slow decay of a sailor's life as a result of facets of 'modern' life that the author & I abhor in common - like nationalistic borders & parasitic capitalism (is there any other kind?). I loved "The Death Ship" but it started out humorous & turned increasingly grim as the bk made its point clearer & clearer. Then I think I read 2 of the 6 "Jungle Novels" wch, according to a short description in the back of this bk, "describe the conditions of peonage and debt slavery under which the Indians suffered in Díaz's time." [ie: before the Mexican Revolution] These were extremely insightful political novels, as was "The Death Ship", & also GRIM - almost 'unbearable'. As such, even though I considered Traven to be a great political writer, I hesitated to read more - my mood is often too depressing as is. SO, I read this anyway. & it was akin to "The Death Ship" in its sarcastic, philosophical, & subtle humour - BUT, the protaganist has a sortof 'easier' time of it & the Mexican Revolution is shown as being somewhat triumphant. It was a relief. I assume that it was historically accurate when it depicts greedy restaurant owners as being successfully forced into cooperation w/ unions BY THE POLICE! What a time that must've been! Now, I've lumped this together w/ Tom Collins' great Australian cattle-driver novel "Such Is Life" by putting it on my "working-class-intellectuals" bookshelf. From me, that's an honor. Whether Traven's actual life trajectory deserves this or not I don't know. I've read sparse, & perhaps conflicting, bios about him. This bk's afterword claims: "The mysterious B. Traven (1890-1969) was born in Chicago, spent his youth in Germany as an itinerant actor and revolutionary journalist, became a seaman on tramp steamers, settled in Mexico in the early 1920s, and began recording his experiences in novels and stories." That rings 'true' - but then so do conflicting claims! Whatever the case, Traven writes like he's been there. Damn, he even makes reference to Baltimore row-homes! Making me wonder whether he'd ever been THERE. If he had, that perks my interest even more. To make Traven even more akin to Collins, there's even a cattle herding. It's all interesting, politically astute, sad, funny, & there's even some uplifting triumph for workers! &, unlike Collins, he wrote many bks! HOORAY FOR B. TRAVEN! "The Cotton Pickers", by the by, was also called "DER WOBBLY", & was either Traven's 1st or 2nd novel. To make the plot even thicker, one supposedly unsubstantiated theory has it that Traven might've been Arthur Craven - the dadaist/boxer who's reputed to've disappeared off the coast of Mexico in a small boat. Wdn't THAT be a trip.
This is kind of a tough one for me to review. There was no plot. There were parts of this novel that were plodding. There were parts of this novel that were, more or less, just an outward polemic on the harsh nature of the relationship between people and capitalism. However...there were parts of this novel that were pure literary brilliance - small, well written anecdotes and episodes that left me intrigued and wanting more. So...I give it 4/5. Not as good as "The Death Ship", but I'm not dissuaded from reading more of his work.
This Bruno guy is So interesting and his novelistic look into workers rights and the power of unionization in mid 20th century America-Mexico is great fun. It's told around the travels and struggles of Gales, who knocks around farms and a bakery in search of a paycheck. People compare Traven to Steinbeck and I agree. A great story, cast of characters and larger meaningful searching all make a worthwhile read.
Interesting! Mexico just after the revolution from the point of view of a foreign drifter / laborer, illustrating life as he works different jobs in a variety of settings. The tone is very socialistic, though not unreasonably so. At times he explains the reasonings of his bosses, expands on the workings of the labor unions, and even adopts a critical stance toward his fellow laborers. His true neutrality, however, is best expressed by his accepting each one of his fellow humans purely the way they are.
traven is a fantastic storyteller, though i do not think this is his strongest effort. while his class sympathies are as evident here as in his other works, the cotton-pickers lacks some of the passion that pervades his other novels. the story, however, does fairly capture the milieu of the migrant/itinerant farm worker, and the inequalities that exist in agrarian cultures.
What more can one say than: “You are a self-deceiver and as such belong to the last generation.” Prose, magnificent, themes, Freudian pessimism, result; fabulous literature.
Really enjoyed it! It is fantastically ironic and seems to be realstic. A lot of fun reading that one!
This book is completely surpassed by Anthony Faulkes' New Introduction To Old Norse, but is still interesting for its historical value and is one of those quirky old oddities that must be owned.
Gordon's introduction to Old Norse remains a standard in the field. A well-selected anthology of prose and poetry (including Skaldic verse), with detailed notes, and a comprehensive grammar and glossary make this an ideal choice for beginning and intermediate readers. Check out the acknowledgements for a shout-out to Oxford don J. R. R. Tolkien!
I have an old edition of this book and it is a one of my treasured books. I read this book in junior high most likely and loved it. This is a great first-hand story about the earlier days of aviation and the triumph of mankind in conquering new frontiers and setting records.
This is a beautiful book. The story of Lindbergh's Atlantic flight told simply and shortly after, before his fame became unmanageable. "We" refers to he and his plane. If you see the plane in Washington now, their accomplishment, pilot and plane, is virtually inconceivable.
I first read "La Beauté sur la Terre" in its original French version a few years ago. I admired its beautiful and slightly strange style. I loved how Ramuz shifts from a specific scene to an overview where we are all somehow involved. I am impressed by how this translation is transcribing this effect so well. Michelle Bailat-Jones seems to have immersed herself in this narrative with her full writer's sensitivity to be able to provide us with this fresh and faithful translation. It is now an absolute pleasure to read in both French and English!
Full disclosure, the translator of this novel's new English edition is a friend of mine. But friendship or not Beauty On Earth—the second novel by Ramuz I've read, along with a few short stories—is a gorgeous, subtle, deceptively complex work. It's the story of a young woman sent to a Swiss village following the death of her father because at 19 she isn't legally of age yet and has become, by default and with no right of self-determination, her unknown uncle's responsibility. It's a story of tension and repression and surveillance in a small, isolated community and of how the presence of an outsider—especially a distractingly beautiful outsider, and a woman—becomes disruptive because of competing masculinities, jealousy, and other ugly traits stirred to the surface. The voice is distinctive and challenging, as it has been in the other Ramuz fiction I've read, shifting tenses and POV often to create an unsettling effect of complicity and indictment between reader, narrator, and characters. It seems ahead of its time that way and I can't help wondering if Ramuz might be better known beyond Switzerland—like his contemporary Robert Walser—had he written urban rather than rural novels and stories. But perhaps he will become better known now in English thanks to this translation and, I hope, more to come.
Rounded down from 2.5 stars. There is a certain genre of novel that rankles me maybe more than any other. And let's just name that genre, for the sake of expediency: the slim, philosophical novel that would have worked far better as a 20-page essay than as a 200-page work of fiction. Beauty on Earth, it pains me to say, is one of these. "Pains me to say" because I never want to dislike a book. I read novels for a lot of reasons, but primarily because I derive, in equal parts, enormous pleasure and profound wisdom from the best of them that I read. So when I dive into a book, I hope and expect to be moved, to be entertained, to be altered, to emerge from its pages with a richer and more complicated vision of the world. It's a lot to ask, but my demands of fiction are thus only because most of it that I read does precisely this to me. But great fiction manages these things by adhering to the lineaments of the novel form. We cannot experience sympathy with a character's plight or predicament if that character is never developed. We cannot burrow into the meaning of -- and be moved by -- a narrative if that narrative is couched within textual gimmickry that draws attention to itself and away from the unfolding story. We cannot understand or identify with a novel that critiques a cultural habit or intellectual pose if, in putting forward the critique, the novel proves an example of the very thing it's criticizing. Beauty on Earth falls into each of these traps, and 30 or 40 pages in, I found myself not giving a damn about it.Ramuz seems to be making a single argument in the book: that beauty is always going to be objectified and inspire the need in others to possess it or marshal it about. And I would agree with this if it weren't for the fact that the beauty that is personhood (consciousness, personality, interaction, inexplicable decisions and speech) resists objectification. Ramuz creates a world and a situation that proves his point because if he were to present the world as it is, proving his point would be a good deal more difficult, if not impossible altogether. If Juliette were allowed a voice on the page -- if she were allowed to be a character rather than a pawn or an icon -- she would do and say the kinds of things that would frustrate or subvert the possessive, objectifying intentions of those around her. Ramuz, though, isn't interested in the messiness and glory of actual life, of relationships and conversations as they actually happen in the Western world -- he's interested in a philosophical construct, in making an artistic statement about the masculine gaze and its diminishing effect on the feminine object of it. The irony is that the novel he's written as a platform for this statement commits the very sin he's lamenting: Beauty on Earth gives us a vision of the feminine capable of little or nothing other than inspiring men to possessiveness and women to jealousy. Juliette has no personality, no complexity, no humanity. And neither, as a result, do the other characters in the book -- all of them (even the gentle accordionist; even Decosterd, whose interest in helping Juliette escape is an act of simplistic chivalry when all is said and done) are devoid of everything from pangs of conscience to the habits of communal debate. The men exist to want Juliette; the other women exist to resent Juliette; and Juliette exists to be wanted and resented. And that makes for an excruciating, pedantic, threadbare 200 pages. It could've made a brilliant essay. It might even have made a good novel had Ramuz made his point (wonderfully articulated, at times, late in the book: "We see her in snatches. She is given to you, she is taken away" on 199, and "She raises her arms again; then she has no arms, then she has no body, then she is no more" on 204) in relation to a refutation of it. For instance, had Juliette been given agency and depth, as a character, and had her fate (to be objectified) remained the same, Ramuz's thesis would've been more powerfully and poignantly realized because we would've been given a sense of what was sacrificed to the obstinate, boorish masculine gaze having its way. Instead, the novel, again, becomes the very thing it despises: a masculine view of the feminine that allows for stereotypes and nothing else.I also got my hackles all bent out of shape over his Modernist devices: the seeming random switches in verb tense and the repetition of phrasing -- e.g. "...yet he knew already that the oars would be there. The oars are there; he knew it" (115). He seems, with the verb tense changes, to making the point that this inclination in men -- to look at women as objects, at beauty as something to be contained or manhandled -- is perpetual, that it has long been this way (past) and continues to be this way (present). But had he written the novel in present tense alone that point would've been implied. As to the repetition: I see no reason whatsoever for it, apart from an attempt at creating a kind of music on the page...I tend to bristle at much literary Modernism, at deconstructing narrative traditions and assembling stories or forms from their pieces. It works beautifully in the plastic arts: I'm a huge fan of Pollock and Kandinsky. I get what they're doing. Hell, I even get what Picasso was doing. But if a writer means to take the novel form apart, joint from joint -- plot, character, concept, message, language -- and make something new of it, there must be enough carried over in the transition for it to still be a novel. To the Lighthouse is an example of literary Modernism that works wondrously well, whereas Beauty on Earth barely registers as a novel: its disdain for characterization, its disinterest in grammatical foundations and its frequent impressionistic establishing of scenes leave it hobbled as a work of narrative art. Privileging concept at the expense of narrative scaffolding can be the undoing of a novel. And lots of great writers make that same mistake. Milan Kundera, for example, wrote a masterpiece in The Unbearable Lightness of Being (which perfectly judged and juggled the relationship between philosophy and narrative) but stumbled in a major way with his novels Immortality and Identity -- because he put philosophical concern so far ahead of storytelling that the books, in the end, felt less like novels than like confounding, pretentious lectures.There is some terrific writing in Ramuz's novel (the fishing and working-the-nets scenes with Juliette, Rouge and Decosterd; the entire middle paragraph on page 95; details like the coat of a horse shining "like a roof washed with rain" on 160) -- but, on the whole, I found it belabored and exasperating.
My favorite childhood book.
My copy of this book is a wreck, I have read it so often. My dad gave it to me, I can't remember if it was a birthday or Christmas gift, but regardless it's one of the best books I've ever been given. You just have to read a couple of pages and you fall right into Holmes and Watson's world; it's wonderful.
I don't know if anyone else does this, but in times of stress or when I have exceptional trouble falling asleep, I find myself re-reading a favorite book. One of these used to be my complete Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series but alas, it *is* in fact possible to read those books too many times. Lately this book has been the Complete Sherlock Holmes.What amazes me the most about these stories is that, despite having read through the entire collection a number of times, I seem to find something new each time I read it. Knowing the solution to the mysteries, doesn't seem to diminish the excitement at getting to Holmes' big reveal each time. The characters of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson become character studies, making you long for the little tidbits that provide more insight into their inner workings.This time around I took the time to look up some of the odder Victorian words and thereby expanded my vocabulary with words like shaw (a small wood or thicket), chandler (a retailer of provisions) and extravasate (to force out from the proper vessels, as blood, so as to diffuse through the surrounding tissues).There are other details that seem impossible to not notice: the fact that, despite Holmes and Watson being clearly hetersexual, their relationship is nevertheless odd, that Holmes was a high-functioning autistic (Asperger's, my guess), and that Watson was a terrible doctor, seeing as how he treated every patient with brandy regardless of their ailment.But it is indeed these quirks that make the characters seem more real, and make the tales and deductions that much more enjoyable.
What first got me hooked on reading. [That sounds corny, like 'Hooked on Phonics' or something...]Either way, I found a seriously abridged and illustrated version of a few stories when I was in 3rd grade. And I've never looked back. Hands down my favorite reads ever.
I have no idea how I let myself get so long in the tooth before finally settling down and reading this collection.  Suffice to say I am glad I finally came to my senses.It is all here, every Sherlock Holmes story ever penned by Arthur Conan Doyle.  There are four complete novels and five books of case studies.  Relax I am not going to even attempt to review every one of these.  That would be tedious for me as well as you.There is no doubt that my hands down favourite of the entire collection was The Hound of the Baskervilles, but make no mistake I loved it all.According to Goodreads I started reading this collection on June 23 of this year and I am just now able to close off my review.  With the exception of the novels which I read straight through once I had started them, the balance of the case files I read in between other books.  I must say I truly enjoyed this approach and looked forward to dropping in to see what Sherlock was up to every now and again.  Sadly all good things must come to an end.  It was however an experience I shall never forget and I shall certainly miss Watson and Holmes.  I may have to go back and pay them a visit again sometime.
Phew… I finished this whole thing in twelve days (except for The Hound of the Baskervilles which I had read before). I was in a very restless mood while reading and couldn’t stop. The focus, precision and energy of the stories kept me alert throughout and I never tired. As soon as I finished a story I was immediately hungry for more. I think the stories actually gained something by being consumed in succession in a short time. It made me aware of the structure of the stories, about similarities and patterns, and also about the relation between the original stories and the multitude of adaptations out there. Inevitably you come to these stories with a lot of preconceptions. What struck me the most was how close many of the adaptations are to the original stories. Even those that turn them into adventure stories aren’t that far off the mark. After all, Holmes has some real swashbuckling potential as both an able fencer and a boxer, this is contradicted, though, by his view of himself as a brain, the rest being mere appendix.
My first review... Well then... Let's get to it. There are many things about Sherlock Holmes stories that I find to be brilliant but I will discuss only three in this review so as not to make it too long.The first is that Holmes is actually as brilliant as his reputation would have everyone believe. Something that I find extremely annoying in fiction is when a character has a reputation for being a fantastic investigator or for being great at something else but they never do anything to prove themselves worthy of that reputation. The character just seems to have average intelligence and the writer makes the main character look smart by making everyone else stupid. Doyle actually went to the trouble of thinking up brilliant things for Holmes to do instead of just making everyone else in the stories stupid as a lot of writers do.The second is the way Doyle handled Holmes and Watson's relationship. Something else that I have come to detest in fiction is the typical friendship in which the characters are too often making a huge sacrifice for one another and are too frequently having big emotional scenes together. Relationships such as that eventually get to the point where they seem too unrealistic and no longer make me feel anything. But Doyle manages to convince the reader that Holmes and Watson are close friends without any of the sacrifices or emotional scenes. He uses little things to show the depth of their friendship which prevents it from ever becoming sappy or too fictional. Also, the way he wrote the characters helps a great deal to establish them as being close friends. The main thing that convinced me that Holmes and Watson must care a lot for one another was the fact that Watson put up with Holmes' arrogance, rudeness, and strange behavior and the fact that Holmes, who was a very cold and unemotional person, actually allowed Watson to be his friend.The third is the stories themselves. Even today they are so original and unpredictable. Another complaint that I have about modern fiction is that I can usually determine the whole plot of the story at the very beginning or at least have a general idea where the writer is going to go with the story and the characters. With most of these stories I didn't have a clue as to what was going to happen next. There were a couple of the stories that I was able to predict but it was still cool to hear Holmes give a logical explanation as to how he had arrived at a conclusion that I had only arrived at by guessing.If you've never read these stories then I would highly recommend doing so. They are absolutely wonderful.
58 hours of narration by the wonderful Simon Vance which I doubt will ever be improved upon. Truly remarkable stories. I often struggle to determine how many stars to give many books, especially modern ones which often come highly touted. But there is no struggle here. These stories are superior to any modern stories I have read this year. For those who may not know this Doyle was a wonderful author of other books equal to his Sherlock Holmes books. For family reading do not miss The White Company. For manliness and chivalry do not miss Sir Gerard and Sir Nigel. This audio book was the perfect running companion. I looked forward to my runs with Sherlock very much over the last few months.
In which we learn that Sherlock Holmes turns to a seven percent solution of cocaine for mental stimulation in the absence of a case on which to work, much to the chagrin of Dr. Watson. Arthur Conan Doyle weaves a story around the Sepoy Mutiny and a lost Indian treasure,in a plot reminiscent of Wilkie Collins' "The Moonstone". Sherlock Holmes reveals that he is a master of disguise and we learn more of the workings of the Baker Street Irregulars. This second appearance of Holmes and Watson is more action driven than "A Study in Scarlet". A very entertaining read.
Time does not change great literature This was completely entertaining and no matter how old you are it's still great to read over the ones you enjoyed the first time. Several I had not remembered reading. I bought this book at special price from here:https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Sherl...
I was so sad when I finished this book. Nothing new to read ever again about Sherlock Holmes ... hmmmm *sigh*
My impression of what a Sherlock Holmes' story is actually like.I came down to breakfast one morning to find my dear friend, Sherlock Holmes disembowelling a gerbil with a teaspoon."My dear Holmes," said I, "is that really necessary?"Barely glancing up from his gruesome task, he told me that it was. "You see, Watson," he continued, "there is matter that I believe may soon become illuminated not only to you but the whole of London society.""Good God, Holmes!" I cried. "Whatever is this?""Have patience, Watson," returned he. "You will understand directly."Two days later, I came down to breakfast to discover my dear friend, Sherlock Holmes, dressed as a goldfish."Ah Watson," he greeted me. "You remember the matter we spoke of the other day?""I do, Holmes, I do!""Well, it is even darker and more disturbing than even I at first realised."The next day, I came down to breakfast to discover my friend lying disconsolately among the bacon."Are you quite well, Holmes?" I enquired."I have solved the case, Watson." He sat up, brushing a fried egg from the lapel of his dressing gown. "Allow me to elucidate."By which I mean, everything happens very statically and in a quintessentially Victorian way.Holmes is a prick and Watson is a sycophant. The theory of deductive is bobbins and I feel genuinely sorry for Lestrade.However ... this is motherfucking Sherlock Holmes.And I enjoy the hell out of it. Maybe precisely because it is completely stupid.
This book is nothing short of brilliant.Arthur Conan Doyle is a master writer; there never was a dull moment in every story, and there are only a handful of characters that I would love as dearly as I love Sherlock and Watson.
I've decided that this mammoth collection of stories will be a work in progress project for me. It'll probably take me a lifetime between reading other books, but the target is set! Why am I doing this? Well, (a) you can have too much of a good thing and (b) I don't want to run the risk of the stories all rolling into one, becoming samey and then boredom setting in and the book landing on my "given-up" shelf. I'm quite sure that these stories were never published all in one go and in one volume. So it doesn't make sense for me to read it like one complete book either. It was probably never originally intended that way. Sir Arthur was definitely never restricted either by publishers only willing to release a certain number of books in a series, that's for sure. What I love about this book?Well, you know exactly why some authors and their works become classics and will remain forever popular. The writing just flows, it's incredibly coherent with just the right amount of suspense. I also really enjoy reading the somewhat archaic use of English. All languages develop and move along, however it is refreshing to read such works for the beauty of prose that existed at this time. Certainly don't write 'em like that anymore! Makes you aware of what has been lost in some respects. One of my favourites is the use of, "he ejaculated" - lol- obviously meaning "he exclaimed." Depending on what was said before I still end up having schoolgirl like fits of giggles! So, please keep your eye on the progress bar and when you see it disappear onto my "read" shelf then I will expect a round of applause :-)
These novels and short stories are a blast to read when you want to get a taste of the original crime thriller stuff. It's cool to know that Doyle kind of started the detective crime mystery genre. If that doesn't make it cool enough, Sherlock Holmes makes for a very interesting character to follow, which makes sense since the character of Gregory House on the medical show HOUSE was based on Sherlock Holmes. This isn't necessarily because they both solve mysteries, but they both seem to have that irrepresible reckless to solve a puzzle and are impossibly observant and intelligent. Also, while House has his vicadin, Holmes has his occasional shot of cocaine!I also love the time period these stories take place. Late ninteenth century is like my fav! The style of talk, writing, and fads back then are always pleasant to read about. This time period also corresponds with an interesting concept of nihilism which proposes the question if men with superhuman abilities have the right to live above the moral code.Though these stories are basically identical in plot, I am entertained as much as when I first read Hound of the Baskervilles. I own a little pocket size edition of these stories and love to read these stories over again when I don't have anything else to do. I highly recommend The Sign of Four which is a bit darker and suspenseful.
absolutely fantastic
A must have for Every Lodge.
Charming.
Man, I love Halliburton. No one has or had a vision like him, he can find the magic in everything. This should be a companion piece to The Odyssey or at least get a paper back to read while you travel Greece.
Really enjoyed this. It's light-hearted and funny, yet offers a good amount of Homeric history. Halliburton's writing style is what sold it for me:"As I had stuck to blubber and champagne at Taormina and left Helios' precious cattle strictly alone, the Sun God had no reason to be wroth with me, nor Jupiter to use my Malta-bound ship as a target for lightning practice. In consequence, the voyage was utterly dull,—so dull, in fact, I was sorry I had been so virtuous.""Seven years! What a long time to live with a goddess. It is no wonder Ulysses was so disconsolate. Goddesses have absolutely no sense of humor. They never laugh delightfully. In fact I never heard one laughing at all. They are usually big healthy women who go around wearing bronze helmets and carrying spears,—and that would get on any man's nerves. Of course Venus was a welcome exception to this. She had curly hair, and a beautiful complexion, and feminine allure. If SHE had been in Calypso's place, Ulysses probably wouldn't have grumbled so much. But including even Venus, I think goddesses would be a deadly bore after a week or two. I'd prefer Jimmy any day."Two small things bugged me: Halliburton occasionally hopped between the Greek and Roman names of the gods, and I wish he would've just picked one. Also, a map would've been awesome! But overall, a quick fun read.
What a fantastic voyage across the Mediterranean in the wake of Odysseus' timeless adventure! Halliburton cleverly weaves his quests, quasi-pilgrimage with moments of the Homer's classic and sometimes blends the two into humorous anecdotes. Loved every page of this book from the summit of Mount Olympus to the Parthenon, the wakes of Hellespont, the swirling vortex of Charybdis, to the summits of Stromboli and Etna, and finally to Ithaca to rescue his beloved Penelope, not to mention countless isles and sirens in between! Strongly recommend this book to all who love adventure, humor and Homer's classic, not to mention traveling vicariously through Richard Halliburton's gallivanting through the Mediterranean! Enjoy!
Richard Halliburton is certainly one of the most interesting "travel writers" I've had the pleasure of reading. He spent the 1920's abroad on romantic adventures and "The Glorious Adventure" is no exception. After sitting board in his living room, he decided to embark on a chapter by chapter journey following Homer's "The Odyssey." His adventures are certainly the madcap variety -- filled with crazy ideas helped along with a bit of alcohol. He never takes himself too seriously and his writing style is terrific -- he injects enough humor to keep the story light and interesting. Really wonderful reading -- especially in the first few chapters, where his adventures are particularly hilarious. A wonderful book!
Everyone needs to read at least one Richard Halliburton book. I love his writing and adventures. Halliburton was an explorer in the 20s and 30s, he died while on one of his travels. He's a mix of Indiana Jones and F. Scott Fitzgereld. Reading his books you get a taste of a time long gone, when the world was not as small as it is now. Every new continent, city, town and mountain held new wonders and only the bravest would explore.
I'm afraid I never finished the book (it had to be returned before we moved). However, what I read I enjoyed. I think I will try it again after I have read The Odyssey. Since Halliburton was following the path of Ulysses, I think I would get more out of it knowing more than just the Cliff's Notes verion of the story.
Extremely enjoyable travel memoir from the 1930s. Halliburton was a famous band popular travel writer of the time. This book details his attempts to retrace the travels of Odysseus, even finding the Cyclop's cave. It's full of pleasures and gives off a glorious Mediterranean glow. Halliburton was definitely a gay romantic (in the broadest sense of the term), which makes this not a book for the hard-boiled . . . but it just make the rest of us yearn for our own Odyssey.
A Another wonderful tale where Richard Halliburton follows the tale of the Odyssey and goes everywhere Ulyssess did--brilliant!
Compares favorably with Gide’s fiction and has an excellent eye for detail. Several other writers of Gide’s era who tried their hand at non-fiction did not pull it off so well nor age so gracefully. The somewhat misleading title ‘Travels in the Congo’ may sound better than ‘Travels in French Equatorial Africa’ but the latter is a more accurate description. The back cover of my Ecco Press edition manages to muddy the waters further by describing the Belgian Congo as now having devolved into the nations of Zaire, Congo and the Central African Republic, which is patently false. Only the Democratic Republic of Congo (the name recently changed from Zaire) can claim to be Belgian and there are relatively few pages of this book which are dedicated to it. The majority of the book covers parts of French colonial Africa that are now the modern Central African Republic, Congo-Brazzaville, Chad, Gabon and Cameroon rounded out by some short visits to other West African ports while in transit. Confusion aside, this is a well-written and enjoyable book about a Central Africa which has (mostly) long since past.
This is an interesting document. It's a journal so you get a day to day account of traveling through the heart of French Congo in the Twenties, with the backing of the French Government. Problems with porters, local chiefs and sheiks, fevers, cooks and the French companies extracting rubber from the dirt poor peoples of the region. It also sheds a light onto the nuances of racism in the colonial world.
“Travels in the Congo” is an artifact, a strange viewfinder showing hard to access parts of Central Africa circa 1925 from the perspective of a very oddly chosen “special envoy of the Colonial Ministry.” Andre Gide (a controversial, avant-garde French playwright) is shuttled around in a Tipoye (a porter-conveyed chair about which he is often wringing his hands with guilt, “As a general rule we use our tipoyes very little, as much because we like walking as to spare our wretched bearers.”), on horseback, in various boats and sometimes, to his credit, he walks on his own feet. Gide’s entourage often exceeds seventy people forcibly requisitioned to transport the ponderous equipment of his unclear mission for less than two francs per person, per day. There is little structure or revision to Gide’s reflections—which is why the book never gathers the sort of momentum that makes something hard to put down. Now he is talking about chasing butterflies and poisoning colorful beetles, next he is reflecting on the precarious health of the over-worked and underfed men in whose company he travels, then he ruminates on the capabilities and qualities of Africans in general and often he shares, in captivating detail, the precise nature of the hospitality and celebrations that he enjoys in a tiny village, a dusty Sultanate or in a kingdom of the Cameroonian highlands. It is typical for Gide to back two sentences like these up against one another: “The natives had all got either the itch or the mange or the scab, or something of the sort; not one of them had a clean, wholesome skin. Saw for the first time the extraordinary fruit of the barbadine (passion-flower).” Much of this book’s charm comes from this unaffected, almost scatterbrained and rarely judgmental attention.Gide’s eccentricities also result in numerous awkwardly comical moments. For instance, “Wanting to get a taste of solitude and feel more intimately the closeness of the forest, I quickened my step and began to run, in an attempt to escape, to outdistance the porters. In vain! They all immediately started off at a trot to catch up with me. Thoroughly annoyed, I stopped and made them stop, drew a line on the ground, and told them not to pass it until they should hear my whistle from a long way ahead. But a quarter of an hour later I had to go back and fetch them; they had not understood, and the whole convoy was being held up.”Throughout, Gide does his best to show charity and love towards the people who serve him or show him hospitality; he wants to distinguish his line of thinking about Africans from that of the people he considers prejudiced, “When the white man gets angry with the blacks’ stupidity, he is usually showing up his own foolishness! Not that I think them capable of any but the slightest mental development; their brains as a rule are dull and stagnant—but how often the white man seems to make it his business to thrust them back into their darkness.” As his trip progresses, he gets closer to some of his assistants and develops deep-rooted admiration for several Africans as well as various sorts of African music, architecture or customs. Supposedly, some of his criticisms of the way that European businesses and governments took advantage of Central Africans gave momentum to movements for reform. Ultimately, this journal is not about a transformation of Andre Gide or a carefully plotted criticism of anything—though moments of transformation and criticism can be discerned. This book should be read for the wealth of carefully observed details that bring to life a period in Central Africa’s history that I have never seen described so well and with such fantastically accidental humor.
This was enjoyable both as travel writing and as a historical document. Gide writes poetically about the scenery, the people and animals that he encounters. He documents the abuses of the colonists with no little despair and he is never less than fair in his dealings with the Africans. It is interesting to look at the map at the front of the book and consider how different its countries are from a modern map and also how different our politics are. Given the attitudes at the time, it is even more remarkable that Gide is able to be so fair and kind, teaching Adoum, one of their servants to read, for example.
Andre Gide has a passion for humanity, nature, language and literature, as reflected in the diary of his nine month trip in 1925-26 across the Congo. He is quite forward thinking (for the time period) in his views on Africans, in his relentless pursuit of local justice and in his premonition of the future for the continent. How marvelous it would be to retrace his steps today, or at the least to speak with him.
I read it in Slovene...good itinerary.I also own a copy of this book in Slovene.
I have a theory that Anita Loos was a nom de plume for Dorothy Parker, or someone otherwise affiliated with the Algonquin Club of New York. Many of these anecdotes seem to be exaggerated private jokes in and amongst the female literati about less-intellectually driven individuals. If read in this context, the book is sharp.
2.5 stars Not as entertaining as Blondes.
Not as good as "Blondes." I, mean, really, really not as good.
Truly amusing and just as silly as the first book, this is the story of Dorothy "Dot" Shaw, as related by her friend Lorelei with all the naive judgements and misspellings you'd expect. Part of the fun for me is that Lorelei doesn't always seem to know exactly what she is talking about so innuendo slides right past her. Dot's story is interesting and involves carnivals, Detention homes, the Follies, domestic abuse, Paris divorces and the mob. And everywhere there are men trying to take advantage of women, and the women who let them - for a price. Whether that price is a Paris vacation, or a wedding ring, someone is going to pay.
The sequel to Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes focuses on Lorelei’s best friend, Dorothy. Dorothy was a wonderful counterpart to Lorelei in the first book, but she loses something when thrust into the spotlight. The same all-knowing, biting satire pervades this book, but Lorelei’s voice doesn’t click quite as well when telling someone else’s story. Plus, I found the darker events alluded to here harder to overlook than in the first book. It’s still a fun read, but it doesn’t have the same magic as Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. Recommended.
In this story, Head trainer John Mason from Shoscombe Old Place, a racing stable in Berkshire, comes to Holmes about his master, Sir Robert Norberton. Mason thinks he has gone mad. Sir Robert’s sister, Lady Beatrice Falder, owns Shoscombe, but it will revert to her late husband’s brother when she dies. The stable has a horse, Shoscombe Prince, who Sir Robert hopes will win the Derby. He would be out of debt if that actually happened.Mason is not quite sure what he wants Holmes to investigate, but a number of odd changes have happened at the stable:Why has Lady Beatrice suddenly forgone her usual habit of stopping to greet her favourite horse? Why does she just ride on by in her carriage?Why has Sir Robert become so wild-eyed lately?Why has he given his sister’s dog away to a neighbourhood innkeeper?Why does he go to the old crypt at night, and who is that man that he meets there?Why have burnt human bones been found in the furnace at Shoscombe?Holmes decides to investigate on the spot. He and Dr. Watson go to Berkshire posing as anglers and learn some interesting things. The keeper of the inn where they are staying is the one who now has Lady Beatrice’s dog, and it is quite an expensive breed, one that an innkeeper ordinarily could never afford.With the innkeeper’s permission, Holmes takes the dog for a walk, and goes to Shoscombe, where he releases it as Lady Beatrice’s carriage comes out of the gate. The dog dashes forward enthusiastically at first, but then flees in terror. Then, even though a maid and Lady Beatrice are supposedly the only two people in the carriage, it is a male voice that yells “Drive on!”Then there is the crypt. John Mason observes that a heap of bones there earlier is now gone. Holmes finds a coffin with a fresh, swathed body in it. Just then, Sir Robert arrives, catching Holmes and Watson in the act. After Holmes makes it plain that he has deduced most of the odd goings-on, Sir Robert invites him and Watson back to the house and explains everything.About a week earlier, Lady Beatrice died of dropsy, and Sir Robert felt compelled to keep the fact secret so that the creditors would not swoop down on Shoscombe before he had a chance to win the Derby and pay off all his debts. He and the maid’s husband hid the body in the crypt, but also found that they had to dispose of an older body — in the furnace. This same man also dressed up in Lady Beatrice’s clothes and took her place in the carriage each day. The dog knew what had happened and might have given the game away if its noise had aroused suspicion.Holmes refers the matter to the police, but the story ends happily. Shoscombe Prince wins the Derby, Sir Robert escapes any major judicial penalty for what he did to his sister’s body, and he pays off all his debts with a great deal left over.Excellent plot, I recommend this story to all readers who appreciate a well written mystery short story.
Nice.
nope.
An unpredictably excitable plot. The story, for a major part, covers a horse race, though it gets quite spooky towards the end. To all readers who appreciate a well-written mystery story, I recommend this short story.
Story is not good but not what I have expected either.
The eleventh short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. A mystery at a horse racing stable. Interesting and entertaining.
Not much to say, it's Mencken. It's brilliant. Surprised no one's bothered referencing his essay "The Cult of Hope" in discussing Obama.
Just great.
I actually have a lovely old two-volume 1920s edition given to me by a friend. The literal mustiness of the pages makes the intermittently musty bits more palatable. Some of it's still sharp. He was a tack, that Mencken.
Endearingly Nietzschean, for an American; fantastic humor, rhetoric, and observations
Good writing; mostly apposite disdain; even the nonsense is good nonsense.
Is there a more perfect poem than "Patterns?"
I liked that it was organized by style because I'm drawn to certain styles that I read closely and was able to skim other sections.
One of my most favourite poets - and interesting people! Read many times. The following is an oft-taught poem but also one I like. The second is a personal favourite.Patterns - Poem by Amy LowellI walk down the garden-paths, And all the daffodils Are blowing, and the bright blue squills. I walk down the patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. With my powdered hair and jeweled fan, I too am a rare Pattern. As I wander down The garden-paths. My dress is richly figured, And the train Makes a pink and silver stain On the gravel, and the thrift Of the borders. Just a plate of current fashion, Tripping by in high-heeled, ribboned shoes. Not a softness anywhere about me, Only whalebone and brocade. And I sink on a seat in the shade Of a lime tree. For my passion Wars against the stiff brocade. The daffodils and squills Flutter in the breeze As they please. And I weep; For the lime-tree is in blossom And one small flower has dropped upon my bosom. And the plashing of waterdrops In the marble fountain Comes down the garden-paths. The dripping never stops. Underneath my stiffened gown Is the softness of a woman bathing in a marble basin, A basin in the midst of hedges grown So thick, she cannot see her lover hiding, But she guesses he is near, And the sliding of the water Seems the stroking of a dear Hand upon her. What is Summer in a fine brocaded gown! I should like to see it lying in a heap upon the ground. All the pink and silver crumpled up on the ground. I would be the pink and silver as I ran along the paths, And he would stumble after, Bewildered by my laughter. I should see the sun flashing from his sword-hilt and the buckles on his shoes. I would choose To lead him in a maze along the patterned paths, A bright and laughing maze for my heavy-booted lover. Till he caught me in the shade, And the buttons of his waistcoat bruised my body as he clasped me, Aching, melting, unafraid. With the shadows of the leaves and the sundrops, And the plopping of the waterdrops, All about us in the open afternoon-- I am very like to swoon With the weight of this brocade, For the sun sifts through the shade. Underneath the fallen blossom In my bosom, Is a letter I have hid. It was brought to me this morning by a rider from the Duke. "Madam, we regret to inform you that Lord Hartwell Died in action Thursday se'nnight." As I read it in the white, morning sunlight, The letters squirmed like snakes. "Any answer, Madam," said my footman. "No," I told him. "See that the messenger takes some refreshment. No, no answer." And I walked into the garden, Up and down the patterned paths, In my stiff, correct brocade. The blue and yellow flowers stood up proudly in the sun, Each one. I stood upright too, Held rigid to the pattern By the stiffness of my gown. Up and down I walked, Up and down. In a month he would have been my husband. In a month, here, underneath this lime, We would have broke the pattern; He for me, and I for him, He as Colonel, I as Lady, On this shady seat. He had a whim That sunlight carried blessing. And I answered, "It shall be as you have said." Now he is dead. In Summer and in Winter I shall walk Up and down The patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. The squills and daffodils Will give place to pillared roses, and to asters, and to snow. I shall go Up and down In my gown. Gorgeously arrayed, Boned and stayed. And the softness of my body will be guarded from embrace By each button, hook, and lace. For the man who should loose me is dead, Fighting with the Duke in Flanders, In a pattern called a war. Christ! What are patterns for? In a GardenGushing from the mouths of stone menTo spread at ease under the skyIn granite-lipped basins,Where iris dabble their feetAnd rustle to a passing wind,The water fills the garden with its rushing,In the midst of the quiet of close-clipped lawns.Damp smell the ferns in tunnels of stone,Where trickle and plash the fountains,Marble fountains, yellowed with much water.Splashing down moss-tarnished stepsIt falls, the water;And the air is throbbing with it.With its gurgling and running.With its leaping, and deep, cool murmur.And I wished for night and you.I wanted to see you in the swimming-pool,White and shining in the silver-flecked water.While the moon rode over the garden,High in the arch of night,And the scent of the lilacs was heavy with stillness.Night, and the water, and you in your whiteness, bathing!
DIscovering her was lifechanging. SHe knows how to craft a poem. Quite incredible. While she's not the most clever and not the most revolutionary, she knows how to use rhyme and rhythm well, and how to make you feel things. Serious things. She was a total badass. Love the intro and front notes on this one as well. Very informative and well written and passionate.
Boredom, the stepson of pride: the repetition of facts and gestures, the collection of untruths by which those called "grown-ups" live, these one childhood had sworn never to accept.I have to pretend to be sorry about romantic expectations hung on one person, as if they were the moon and stars. Maybe I don't do it that well but it continues to happen. Someone would have to hang around with a person they didn't want to share the only life (probably) they'll ever get. The rest of it, loneliness and a wistfulness to be seen. Turn the hands and you're the you you could believe in. All of that stuff. I don't get the life unexamined if you can go, "Well, I'm married so that's all good". I felt for the mother who is left by her husband and her beautiful cousin. Her daughter enacts their moon and the sun with the small world at her fingertips. They have bitterness for breakfast and "Told you so" for second breakfast. Her small head goes to bed pushed down by a life that won't go on, obsessed with Cynthia. She's obsessed by Cynthia as the winner. I couldn't help feeling for the loser, not knowing how to want for herself. I can see her becoming one of the suspected poplar trees, scenery. I lived the little girl's life, though. My earliest memory was celebrating freedom from my father but many more after were the paths of the end. Marriage, a stamp of approval from a penis, I don't know. I don't get it. I can think "That's not fair!" for the grandfather. His wife, Amie once more. She takes her daughter's new man. If people were for the taking, if they are I don't see them. I would rather be a beast somewhere, my eyes running over mysterious fields somewhere else. I go cow-eyed more than ever when someone blames the person sitting next to them because their dreams didn't come true. Such bullshit. Princes, queens, wild dreams of owls become fish. She has an awakening and maybe it was the glamorous Cynthia with her narcotic sight. A young maid is related to Russian bears stalking jet planes. Drinking kerosene and run away. Her gardener rules with fists of ham. She murders him and they, the man, will kill her. The little girl still grows up under glass of fish, bright in spots. I don't know if it is the sex that lights their life. I'm not seeing any ends there (only the beginnings). The mother is married off to the tiny Mac-Louf. Run away to Africa where no one is listening to your endings. She must have been a poplar tree to them too because does anyone remember there was a child. Mac-Louf does some do-gooding and the apartment gets a charity maid. The young negroe misses the hands on her tits, the groaning in grasses. I can't get too excited either way. I get a bad faraway feeling thinking about what could happen to those very young girls, later on. If they had wanted to, if anyone asked. I doubt that the stonings of the little girls one reads about today would have happened if there weren't outsider Mac-Loufs about in the first place to talk too much about what someone else was doing. It's like some vast ocean somewhere, I'm not invited (I don't want to open the door again to ponder if I felt so bad for the abandoned wife because I'm also not pretty, so also not going to see where the Cynthias lie in exotic sheets of some fleshy bliss blissful owing to you don't have to think about it). The satellites pick up the heat life when there's a howling, an in time. I don't care if the maid lived happily ever after with her man with the hands. The grandma aging out of herself again. The fevered negress taken for a prostitute. Cynthia's drug dealer with the suit case is much less than her stealing three drops of the red-heads perfume to pretend to be her. I loved their outside. I get the feeling Crevel felt a lot like I did when it's just a bit of silence in the after. I don't know if the little girl ever lives outside the glass. I have a feeling she ran out of air to breathe inside their rooms just by waiting for the Cynthias to suggest.... something. I don't know. I never had an idea of what else was supposed to happen when beautiful people ran away for something other than what they know. In a red and gray city, you will have a colorless room with silver walls, its windows open to the clouds, whose sister you are. It is in the wide open sky that one must seek the gestures of your fingers, the shadow of your face.Max Ernst contributed nineteen photograms. The black on black showing up outlines in an x-ray. A humanoid is marionetted on itself, a crown dehaloed is above. A fence like a most paranoid vertical blind with a sun rising behind. Cynthia's face made up. Birds of a feather to fate. I liked that they feel like they could be made again out of your own room and paths. I'm suspicious of the translator, Kay Boyle. I could be a jerk. There's a fuss in my North Point Press copy about the ages worked on it. I have this image of Crevel as like me. The letting go is the drive and the pull, you know? You write to live at least a little further than the unthought thoughts. Also, she's got an autobiography about her and some other dude called "Being geniuses together". I am going to read one of her novels in case I'm a jerk. I never know how to explain the "vibe" of a good or bad translation. It's all bullshit since my language grasp is nothing to write about. But I wonder if the feeling I get that the removal is in a foreign listener is from translations. Not all the time just in an awkward turn.
self indulgent piece of crap
Quintessential Chesterton, more overtly religious than 'Thursday', better plotted than 'Napoleon' - I wonder why this novel is so less remembered than the others? It doesn't have quite so much of his wonderful weather and sky descriptions, but is as based on paradox as ever, as full of delightful characters, and is better on man/woman relationships than usual - here he is with a passage between one of his couples:"People are often very misleading when they talk about themselves; even when they are perfectly honest, and even modest, in talking about themselves. But people tell a great deal so long as they talk about everything except themselves. These two had talked so often and so long about all the things that they cared for so much less than for each other, that they had come to an almost uncanny omniscience, and could sometimes have deduced what one or the other thought about cookery from remarks about Confucius. And, therefore, at this unprepared and apparently pointless crisis, they talked in what would be called parables; and neither for one moment misunderstood the other."It's lovely stuff. Highly recommended.
Satirical shenanigans as an aristocratic amateur dramatics production is threatened by a miners' strike. The Hon. Douglas Murrel (known, obscurely, as Monkey) is 'a man of wide culture, and had failed in all subjects'. Fortunately, he is also a good-natured and amusing aphorist of the Wildean sort: "I raise against the Red Tie the more truly democratic blazon of the Red Nose; and appeal from the Marseillaise to the Music Hall," he said, smiling.'Jack Braintree is a radical syndicalist who likes nothing better than to stuff it to the propertied classes. Due to appear in the play as a troubadour, he pulls out when the strike is called, precipitating an attempt to have 'him taken down a peg' by Olive Ashley, an unconventional upper class girl who appears to dislike him, but of course loves him. So she calls on the aid of their shared friend, the irrepressible Monkey.Getting himself mixed up in the play, the strike, and eventually the highest echelons of British politics is Michael Herne, a crusty old librarian and esoteric scholar. A specialist in Palaeo-Hittite society, he studies the ins and outs of medieval history much like a method actor would in order to immerse himself in the role Richard Coeur-de-Lion. Epigrams, wordplay and bon mots abound, with just deserts being dispensed to both the right and the left, the upper and lower classes. It's clever as hell and wise too, though slightly sullied by a few, admittedly frivolous, but still distasteful, uses of the 'n' word, that no doubt a modern-day Chesterton would never have used. The first time I have ever read Chesterton, despite both Gene Wolfe and R. A. Lafferty recommending him. It won't be the last.
A weird story, with moments of rich profundity, as was Chesterton's habit in his fiction. This was my favorite bit: "For worries are never anything but worries, however we turn them round. But a sorrow is always a joy reversed."
Reading a Chesterton novel is like sampling an expensive wine or eating a rich dessert; it must be taken slowly, and every bit must be savored. Reading The Return of Don Quixote was my chance to really sample a piece of literary greatness. This was one of the best books I've read in a while.Combining Wodehousian hyjinx with Cervantian flair, and a style that is all his own, Chesterton creates a unique and fulfilling novel that must be read more than once to be fully appreciated. This is only my first time reading it, but I would love to read it again, in hopes of really being able to capture a bit more of the multi-layered levels of theological, literary, and philosophical twists and turns it has to offer. Chesterton is a master writer, and this first look into his work has only left me hungrier for more!
Chesterton with his love of medievalism, matrimony and puns. *sigh* His puns are perfect. His characters are lovable - against all odds. His favourite argument was turning things inside out. He turns his readers inside out, too, but somehow it always feels like the right side is up. I want to ride a hansom cab, search for illumination paint and marry an English gentleman who dares to be deathly idealistic.
A complex and magnificent book written by the famous writer, G.K. Chesterton. It is many layered. Initially, it might feel that you are sinking into a cake, a huge complicated cake of different layers of sponges, fruits, creams and you may feel it challenging to keep track of the various kinds of threads of issues, skilfully interwoven to make compelling reading. There is abruptness and surprises, religion and politics, psychology and feelings. Very colourful, very evocative of medieval times, and well etched characters. You may find it hard initially but it is thoroughly enjoyable.
This story makes very uncomfortable...
That was surprisingly good!
This is one of my all time favorite short stories. I have read it about every five years since first discovering it as a teenager. Have you ever been high on anticipation, feeling great in your own skin, only to arrive at the "party" and where you proceed to crumble from within..panic attack courtesy of Virgina Woolf.
such feelings in a book. it was a good read!
Interesting diction and voice particularly with regards to themes of solipsism.
One of Burroughs better novels. The inherent racism of the day is evident, but he treats the Indians with great sympathy. Whether accurate or not, I cannot say, but it is a darned good read.
Everyone who writes about this book says that it is one of Burroughs's best. Best is a relative term. Perhaps it is one of the best, but it is still crap.The book has a two part structure. In part one, Shaz-Dijiji, part Indian and part white, grows up and becomes an Apache war chief. In part two, he goes against everything he had struggled to achieve, though each betrayal is presented as Shaz-Dijiji making the noblest choice. I may agree with those choices, but that is not the point.Burroughs wrote a letter in which he says that it is Shaz-Dijiji's white blood (red or blue, surely) that prompts his higher nature. This is racist, obviously. Burroughs was wise to keep such an overt statement out of this book, otherwise I would been so repulsed that I would not have finished it. I imagine that others feel the same. Note: Shaz-Dijiji's white blood is mentioned numerous times in the book, but that is not stated as the reason for his softer side.Burroughs had certain themes that he reused with boring regularity. The protagonist must be so physically splendid that he has more prowess than his peers. Check. The protagonist is a mighty hunter and warrior. Check. Indeed, Burroughs referred to Shaz-Dijiji as an Apache Tarzan in his correspondence about this book. Burroughs had the bad habit of troubling love stories with rival suitors and many, many of those rival suitors were the enemies of his protagonists and the protagonist kills the rival suitor when his rival attacks him. Check. I could make a much longer list of the Burroughs chicles that are in this book, but I trust by now that you get the point. Sure, this is about Apaches in the Southwest, but most of the clichés that apply to the Tarzan, Barsoom, and Pellucidar books are here.Spoiler in the rest of this paragraph: Perhaps the most inexcusable plotting shift comes with the death of Shaz-Dijiju's girlfriend. Nothing builds to it. The incident comes out of the blue. She deserves better than that, but Burroughs liked to have his protagonists marry somebody from outside their culture, or more accurately, the women marry heroes from outside of their culture, so a newly introduced character is invented for that role and the old girlfriend has to go. This is so awkwardly handled that it reads as if Burroughs changed his mind about the plot half way through and revised badly to accommodate his new idea, but it is worse than that. Burroughs was quite clear in his correspondence that the plot was outlined in advance and he adhered to the story. The new woman was to marry Shaz-Dijiju in the third book of the series, which in the end Burroughs did not write. The first girlfriend, a better mate for Shaz-Dijiju, surely, was sacrificed for a Burroughs cliché. Credit Burroughs for one thing: The books lacks a coherent plot, but that allows him to vary the incidents. A few pages of peaceful hunting lead to a troop of Mexican soldiers on an Apache hunt. That battle over, the next scenes are about moving through the desert. Then more whites show up and they need killing. And so it goes, action scenes naturally alternating with more peaceful scenes. This book may be crap, but I'll give credit where it is due.
It is formulaic, but I like the forumula.
Great book, good read, looking forward to book 2 in the series.
Another great fast paced action book by Burroughs. You always get caught up in these and swept along. recommended
I would like this in the Kindle Edition, when it comes available.
Oldie, but a goodie.
I would advise people to read this, and read it slowly. Find out about the man, who he worked with and what he did in the early 1900's. I felt totally annoyed when I finished this book and I'm not sure I know why. I read a lot but this book made me feel uneasy because I wasn't sure I was getting the intended message and for that I feel annoyed. At times his prose was brilliant, I agreed and yet I wasn't sure I was agreeing with what I would think was true, like he was a politician running for office and making his position sound good to get elected but it really was terrible for almost everyone. I may have to get ambitious and reread it. Being linked with President Wilson as Lippman was draws immediate scorn. The ideas that came out of this era in America are dangerous to the America values we've had since the founding. However, I thinks its wise to read a view point other than your own.
If P.G. Wodehouse had written a fairy tale for his grandchildren, I imagine it would have been something like this book. One pictures the author writing with a whiskey-and-soda at his elbow and his tongue in his cheek, likely when he was supposed to be doing something else, something responsible. This book is both very enjoyable and little known, which is too bad and which is why I wacked up the ginger to say tell you about it...yes, you. This is a really fun book for those who love a good old fashioned fairy story (at least one that doesn't take itself too seriously). This story shares some responsibility for inspiring J.R.R. Tolkien's creation of hobbits and their adventures. Tolkien said, "I should like to record my own love and my children's love of E. A. Wyke-Smith's "Marvellous Land of Snergs", at any rate of the snerg-element of that tale, and of Gorbo the gem of dunderheads, jewel of a companion in an escapade." The Snergs share some very key traits with hobbits: they are small of stature but big on loyalty, they love feasting and celebration, they are resourceful and trustworthy folks to have at your side in a tough scrape, and in this tale at least, like hobbits, there is adventure in underground tunnels and forests and run-ins with ogres. Also, the main Snerg character's name in this story, Gorbo, is reminiscent of Bilbo and Frodo of Tolkien's tales, though his character is more frequently like a hybrid of Pippin and Sam.Spoiler Alert!This story has the roving childlike whimsy of Peter Pan, the lovable little folk of The Hobbit and the wise-cracking, side-of-the mouth commentary of The Princess Bride. It all takes place on a remote island (which is either a part of the cost of England or a near by island, perhaps a fictional Mann) where disparate elements all weave together to make a fun tale of adventure. In light of his critiques of C.S. Lewis' "Chronicles of Narnia", one imagines that the disparate elements woven together was not one of the aspects of this story that Tolkien appreciated. There is a village for superfluous children, rescued from England and the parents that don't love them by women who supply the love and structure which their own home situations did not. This village is located in a bay which can be accessed by ship but apparently never left. The Flying Dutchman is anchored in the bay and Captain Vanderdecken and his men, while perpetually readying their ship for sea, have built a settlement on the beach and have settled into comfortable arrangements with Miss Watkyns, a sort of Mary Poppinsesque leader of the S.R.S.C. (Society for the Removal of Superfluous Children). The bay is surrounded by a forest inhabited by friendly bears and beyond that some way is the land of the Snergs. These people are also friendly and trade labour and goods with the S.R.S.C. and Vanderdecken. Beyond the Snergs is the river in a deep chasm and beyond that, a land full of danger and enemies...or so it is thought until the foolishness of two runaway children, Joe and Sylvia, and a bumbling Snerg, Gorbo, ultimately proves that there is much about this land which is misunderstood.The story starts a bit slowly for very young readers as there is some back ground and explanation given to set the stage. But once the story starts, there is much for that younger audience to appreciate: a young boy and girl and their puppy for protagonists, a lovable but bungling Snerg, Gorbo, who will do whatever it takes to protect those children, a witch, a (not so) reformed ogre, knights, kings, castles, a beautiful princess, multiple feasts, an incorrigible jester, armies, dangerous escapes, etc. Throughout the story, there is much witty side commentary by the narrator which adds a level of pleasure to the parent who might be reading this tale to their children (the Bugs Bunny effect - appeals on a whole-nother level to the parents). The narrator promises throughout that the tale is working toward a worthy moral which will instruct its youngest readers in practical wisdom. Here's a quote from near the end which is not only the final payment on the repeated promises to come up with a moral, but also an example of the running commentary that in places elicited a chortle from this father and caused his children to look askance:"It occurs to me here that there is some difficulty in proving a really useful moral from this tale, although I have almost boastfully referred to it as coming in due course for the instruction of my younger readers. For however reprehensible the children were in their disobedience and irresponsibility it cannot be denied that the general results of their conduct were beneficial. They were instrumental in bringing a swift finish to two persons who constituted a serious menace to the public. They had brought about the establishment of friendly relations between two countries, and removed doubts that had existed for centuries. Lastly, they had returned magnificently dressed and bearing expensive gifts. So perhaps the only definite moral that can be deduced is, if you by any chance meet an ogre who claims to be reformed, pretend to believe him until you have got a gun and then blow his head off at the first opportunity."This is just good fun. April 2016: just finished reading this book (again) to my 3 oldest. We laughed much and thoroughly enjoyed ourselves. The escapades of Baldry, the exiled jester, were particularly entertaining.
A fun romp.
forgotten classic
I read this aloud for my little niece Kaitlyn, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.This is a delightful fantasy centered around the adventures of Joe and Sylvia (both removed from their abusive/neglectful homes by the benevolent Society for the Removal of Superfluous Children and relocated to a magical island) and their friend Gorbo, a Snerg, who finds through the course of the novel that he is far less a fool than he (and everyone else) thinks he is. It features classics of the genre (an ogre, a witch, a knight, and even the crew of the Flying Dutchman), along with original additions such as the short and feast-loving Snergs. Some of the most charming moments come from the author's sly and clever asides to the reader. J.R.R. Tolkien loved this book and read it to his children, and it's easy to see some of the inspiration for The Hobbit in its pages, from Gorbo's character growth to the peace and new understanding found between peoples where violent conflict seemed inevitable. (Not that there isn't violence. There is!) A few small details show the book's age, especially with regard to Sylvia's character, but on the whole this is a deeply enchanting read that refuses either to take itself too seriously or to talk down to its audience, and thus it offers rewards for both the adult and the child reader.
Most EnjoyableFun and Delightful. This light little book is an enjoyable read. Recommend it for adults and children. Enjoy it at bedtime or on the beach.
A entertaining story in the vein of the Chronicles of Narnia. The story follows to children in their adventures int he Land of Snergs (kind of a cross between Dwarves and Goblins) and beyond. The characters are entertaining and some moral lessons are present. How ever the story doesn't seem to have a specific direction and bounces from unrelated adventure to unrelated adventure.
A very merry story about the adventures of two children, it filled me with smiles and I would love to befriend the jester!
Ogres, witches, Dutchmen soldiers, and Snergs. Lots of adventure here. This book was apparently a favorite of the Tolkien family and after reading it with my 9-year old I can see why!
Funny and sweet, if somewhat meandering.
This is a fun book
I found this book while browsing through a catalog. They had a quote from Tolkein that "this was his source book for the Hobbit" and that he'd read it to his own children. Okay, says me, we'll try it.My kids loved this book. And my husband loved reading it to them. Every night I'd hear them laughing away and then they'd be talking about it the next day.It has a very Tolkein/Narnia type feel to it and was just plain fun. The language is a bit difficult but not so much that they couldn't understand it.We had relatives visit while we were reading this and they took turns reading to the kids and they thoroughly enjoyed it as well.Try this little known gem.
A really fun and not well know fairy-tale which was loved by J.R.R. Tolkien and his children. He credits The Marvelous Land of the Snergs for inspiring him to write The Hobbit. The story begins on a remote Island where a Miss Watkyns harbors unwanted and neglected children. The Island is accessible with the help of Vanderdecken (known as the Flying Dutchman) and his crew but once there you are unable to leave. Here we encounter Snergs who are very short and wide. Joe and Sylvia, two of Miss Watkyns harbored children, become restless and decide to run off to avoid more punishment. Of course they get lost and realize they are in serious trouble when they encounter a wicked witch and a child eating ogre who claims to be reformed. Gorbo, a bumbling but very sweet Snerg, has run out of chances with his king and ends up sharing this adventure with our two run aways. I would truly love to tell you more but that would be unfair. So I suggest you read this for yourself and then share it with your children or grand-children. I plan to read it again just for the humor.
A sweet, but witty, story that my three daughters loved. Elements from the Snergs certainly inspired Tolkien and Lewis. The writing style prefigures Lemony Snicket in some ways. Recommended for imaginative lovers of fantasy and fairy tales.
It's a children's book, but an amusing and classic one.
I loved this book I can't beleive I never heard about it until I joined GoodReads.
This autobiographical account of Helen Keller’s faith is interesting, but potentially mistitled. Greatly influenced by Swedenborg, she devotes that majority of the book in extreme praise of his thought. “Swedenborg was not a destroyer, but a divinely inspired interpreter. He was a prophet sent by God. His own message proclaims it more convincingly than any saying of his followers could. There is no escaping his virile personality. As we read his message, we are filled with recognition and delight. He did not make a new Bible, but he made the Bible all new! One who receives him gains a great spiritual possession.” A better title might have been, “Swedenborg’s Religion and Its Tremendous Influence on Me.”That said, there are some interesting passages, and one comes away incredibly impressed with the intelligent eloquence with which Keller writes. “As I wander through the dark, encountering difficulties, I am aware of encouraging voices that murmur from the spirit realm. I sense a holy passion pouring down from the springs of Infinity. I thrill to music that beats with the pulses of God. Bound to suns and planets by invisible cords, I feel the flame of eternity in my soul.” Beautiful phrasing such as this does lead to her interpretation of the mission of Jesus. Regarding Jesus, she states, “He always visualized hatred as the opposite of God in every detail, great or small, and His teaching about hell was not as of punishment by God, but the inevitable law of evil recoiling upon those who cast themselves into hate and the burning lust and the cruel miseries of wounded pride and thwarted egoism. No matter from what angle He started, He came back to this fact, that He entrusted the reconstruction of the world, not to wealth or caste or power or learning, but to the better instincts of the race—to the nobler ideals and sentiments of the people—to love, which is the mover of the will and the dynamic force of action.”Ultimately, her faith regards loving action as a prime mover of the world. This faith resonates with her own experience. “It is by fighting the limitations, temptations, and failures of the world that we reach our highest possibilities.”This book is a worthy read.See my other reviews here!
I found a super-psychedelic 60’s edition of this book and thought I’d give it a shot. I didn’t know much about Helen Keller when I picked it up, but her experience of course is fascinating and she is probably the most widely known disabled person from history. So, being into disability theory I decided to read it sooner than later.First off this is much more of a philosophy book than an autobiography. Through most of the book she defends the theories of Swedish scientist and theologian, Emanuel Swedenborg. She references all kinds of philosophies ranging from Empedocles to the Code of Hammurabi. It’s been awhile since I’ve been on a theology/philosophy kick so some of the tangents were rather mind-numbing. She also defends her various views of Bible interpretation and the nature of God. I don’t agree with her on 95% of her points regarding spirituality, but her arguments are interesting and deserve thought. She is very strong willed in her opinions and how she got to them is something that I think deserves more recognition than people give her credit for. I was amazed at her scope of knowledge, but what I appreciated most was her strong perspective. I think too many put her in the hallmark card inspiration category and don’t give her much credit past learning the word “water.” But it’s clear that she was extremely in tune with the world and people in it, more so than people today who have the use of all their senses. So, no, this isn’t an inspirational autobiography, but it does dig very deep into her strong prerogative of her spiritual sense and her unshaken relationship with Christianity and God. Well worth the read though you’ll be brushing up on loads of history to follow through some of the points.
I don't really know what to say here. Nan Britton was in love with a lecherous dog, albeit one who supported her and their love child. However, President Warren Harding died without leaving any provision for them, thus leaving them in bad economic straits. Ms. Britton tries her best to support her daughter, but the times were not amenable to a single mother. She tried to get money from Harding's siblings, but they were not inclined to support Britton's daughter, so she wrote this book to make some money. It is a fascinating a look of an affair between an old lech and a naïve young lady. It is sad that Miss Britton felt that Harding was as into her as she was into him. It was also sad to see her struggle to make ends meet. Miss Britton goes to great lengths to justify her affair, but in the end, it was still an affair with a married man. I don't think that I have as generous an opinion of Mr. Harding and the affair as Miss Britton did. The books is filled with short, easy to read chapters. My only regret is that it does not follow Miss Britton's nor her daughter's life after the publication of the book. I would like to know what impact that had on her life.I recommend.
Harding would never make it today...wouldn't be able to hide the mistresses and the illegitimate child. Nan Britton sounds like a very immature and still obsessed woman, which I suppose is why so many didn't believe her story. Interesting read.
I am so glad that I read this book - I came across a reference to it in another book, and discovered that the San Francisco Public Library had a copy. Not only a copy, but an original copy from 1927 (although it looks to me as if it was re-covered at one point). Nan Britton had an affair with Warren G. Harding when he was a Senator - he was 30 years older than she was (Harding's younger sister Daisy was Nan's high school English teacher). They had a daughter (Elizabeth Ann) the year before Harding was elected President of the United States. They continued their affair - it's Nan who says they would "make love" in the closet in the ante-room between his public and private offices (I had heard about that, but thought it was just a rumor). Harding sent her money to care for her daughter during his Presidency, but when he died suddenly, Nan lost that source of income. When it became obvious to her that she wouldn't get any more help from Harding's family, nor would they acknowledge Harding's paternity, Nan wrote a book (although it certainly feels as if she had help). Nan self-published the book, or "The Elizabeth Ann Guild" did, to raise money to save benefit all "love children". Fascinating, fascinating read. Nan had destroyed all of Harding's letters to her (at his request) but in the 1960's, it turned out a previous mistress of Harding's, Carrie Phillips, had kept her letters, adding credence to Nan's story (I wonder if there's a book out there about Philips). At any rate, the internet tells me that Harding and Britton descendants have checked DNA (in 2015) and although Nan and Elizabeth Ann did not live long enough to find out, it has been proven that Elizabeth Ann was indeed Warren G. Harding's daughter. Fascinating read, lots of overblown prose and lots of mushy sentimentality, but a fascinating look at a 100 year old political scandal.
An eye-opening read!I couldn't put the book down for the first half. However the second half tended to random stories and later the reason why the author decided to publish the book. It's definitely the first "kiss and tell" book.
It felt like the story was all over the place. I understand it's a mystery, but it was sometimes too confusing to follow. No detailed explanation at the end.
This is slightly more straight forward than the other Wallace books I've read recently, I suppose, but still somewhat convoluted. But like all the others, we have oodles of characters who might or might not be what they appear to be at first. It's an entertaining read, if not exactly high literature. At one time (the 1920s) Wallace was wildly popular in England, or so Wikipedia tells me. In this book, the beautiful Jane Leith is induced by her father, John Leith, to marry Peter Clifton, a young man who is very rich, but who seems to have had a shadowy past. Perhaps he has a shadowy present as well, he keeps appearing through the book in sketchy situations. Jane barely knows Clifton before she marries him. She was mostly going along with her father's wishes. She didn't even know if she liked the guy all that much. On the other hand, he was rich, decent enough looking, well spoken, and not repulsive. Such was the state of matrimony back in olden tymes, e.g. some 90 years ago: you could buy yourself a pretty spouse, and hope she was nice enough and compliant enough to make you happy. The women, of course, had few other options, so had to suck it up and hope for the best. One of Peter Clifton's best friends is the Harley Street physician, Mr. Donald Cheyne Wells. Cheyne Wells is also Clifton's physician. He was also in favor of the marriage, and certified for the purposes of the marriage that Clifton was not a homicidal maniac, as had been Clifton's father, Alexander Wellerson. Jane, naturally, was not told that their might be a stain in Peter's blood lines. Peter is also very good friends with Scotland's Yard Detective Superintendent Joe Bourke. But then Chief Inspector Moses Rouper is not so fond of Clifton and keeps trying to find reasons to frame him for one crime or another. Fortunately Bourke ranks higher than Rouper, and is also much more smarter. He keeps showing up at the right place at the right time so as to keep Rouper at bay. Then, we have the problem that there is a mysterious, "the Clever One" lurking in the background. He is a master at printing and passing forged notes, notes in British pounds, U. S. dollars, French francs, whatever. It also appears that Peter Clifton has a hobby of producing etchings, very fine ones too. So might he also be "the Clever One", producing currency as a side line to his works of art? Well, along with the forged notes which appear in the pockets of various people in this book, bodies begin piling up. The amusing Basil Hale, perhaps a rival for Jane's hand, is found murdered in the bushes on the grounds where the Clifton's are having their honeymoon. Later, Clifton's lawyer, is found shot through the head, and Clifton himself is out cold under the bushes outside the lawyer's house. So, is Clifton a homicidal lunatic? Will Jane, or Mrs. Clifton learn to love her husband? Are Cheyne Wells and Insp. Rouper on the up and up? Well, tune in to find out. Were one able to give +s and -s, I'd likely rate this book a ***+. It needs not to be throwaway reading to merit 4*s, but none-the-less, it is indeed a GoodRead.
Really interesting book with unexpected end.
Although this lacks the lyrical quality of many other tales of Robin Hood, this compilation of the many stories of the outlaw and his followers is well worth reading by any who may be interested in his story.
This book is great because I was curious about what would happen nect when Robin Hood shot his arrow to the apple on his son's head!
Who didn't love Robin Hood as a youngster?
A classic....I just couldn't get the Disney music out of my head as I read this.
4.5 out of 5
This is an awesome version of Robin Hood! The illos are great, including some of the classics by Pyle, some glitzy old hollywood images and some old medieval manuscript type images. The text is from the turn of the century, and so has this really classic, heroic flavor to it that you just don't get with modern writing--but it is short enough and quick-moving enough that you don't get really mired down in the difficult language. I actually missed my train stop while engrossed in this one! Recommend this to fans of Ranger's Apprentice, Eragon or anything medieval-ly. Another favorite in this vein is Robin Hood: His Life and Legend by Bernard Miles and illustrated by Victor Ambrus.
Although I'm from Nottingham and have a soft spot for Robin - I had obviously never read a version of the stories (which surprised me). I've obviously only seen the movie versions! Enjoyed the tales and the way this was written - it's piqued my interest in finding out a bit more about what the actuals tales and ballads record and what we think the 'real' story may be.
No wonder the legend of Robin Hood has lived for so long. This is a good story. The reader has to wade through some more difficult and old-fashioned words, however, it wasn't too bad. It might even be good for us to learn a little more about our native tongue.
I loved this book. I've always loved the stories about Robin Hood (the Disney cartoon was one of my favorite movies as a little girl, and also the source of my first crush), and this reminded me of why. The stories were fascinating. The art was also beautiful.
This is a fun vintage book full of cowboys, indians, romance, and action. Written in 1927 by Mourning Dove, it was the first novel published by a Native American woman, and she did it as a migrant farm worker typing on her rickety old typewriter at night. It is definitely pulp fiction, but there is also some depth if you read closely.
It was a fun throwback read.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. This is a love story and, yes, it is predictable but it is still a great read. I respect and admire Mourning Dove and the fact that she is the first Native American woman to have published a novel. Her writing style is fun and free-spirited and it was a great adventure to read this book. One of my favorites.
At page 76 I choose not to finish reading this book. I was eager to read the first novel published by a native American woman but found the narrative voice hard to consistently identify as hers for the many insertions and edits and influence of her collaborator, Lulus Virgil McWhorter. Fiction can shine light on dark times and places, reveal human circumstances otherwise opaque and hidden but in this story the characters often disappear to make room for scolding didactic arguments that would be better delivered either by one clear narrative voice or the characters themselves. Still, the book exists and probably would not have without these two helping each other. I will pop it on my bookshelf and see if I revisit it in another season.
This book is kind of hard to follow, even with a background in Native history and a love of Harliquin Romances. You know her 'mentor' helped Cogewea "write" her book, and even she acknowledges that she needed him to get it published. However, either a third grade education was a lot more political then or he editorialized a lit, especially the first third of the book. I read this as a favor to my spouse, who also has read it as part of her grad school class. Could Cogewea be as naive as she comes across? There is a reason the author had to guarentee publishing costs, this book might be history,but enjoyable.....not so much
Surprised I enjoyed this as Romance novels aren't typically my thing. First, this novel, written by an Indigenous woman, is maddeningly steeped in noble savagism and the myth of the vanishing race. At the same time, it's really fascinating to see this pre-Renaissance critique of settler colonialism and white supremacy. Also a good source for Indigenous liminality, though the differences between white, Indigenous, and "breeds," are almost entirely defined by blood quantum and not cultural identity. Could pair well with pre-Chicano/a lot novels like CABALLERO and SQUATTER AND THE DON, too, for how they navigate a place of women of color, white men, marriage, and progress.
This book was meticulously researched by American journalist Floyd Gibbons who gained access to the personal letters and papers of Manfred Richthofen, Germany’s Red Baron of World War One. The book makes fascinating reading, the subject showing himself to be an efficient killing machine. I found it sick and quite chilling that he would have a jeweler in Berlin make a special cup for each one of his ‘kills’- that is, until the jeweler ran out of silver after sixty cups and could make no more. These cups were displayed in the Red Baron’s bedroom back in Germany. Unfortunately for the German ace, he did not get to enjoy his cup display as he, himself, was shot down before he could kill his 81st victim, a young Australian who was fleeing for his life. I found the aspect of chivalry on the Western Front interesting. Each side carefully dropped information to the enemy pertaining to the fate of airman shot down—whether they were dead, injured and or taken prisoner. Immediately after his demise, Richthofen was buried with military honors by the Allies. Later in 1925, his remains were moved from France to Germany and all sides attended a massive funeral in his honor.
A difficult start which ultimately proved to be a rewarding, and engaging appraisal of one of World War One's most successful aviators. A book from a different era with a narrative which reflects it. Written during the aftermath of the Great War and immediately prior to the ideological second World War, this is a tale of both man and machine and how the chivalrous aspects of combat, lost to the trenches and mechanised warfare, were transferred to the skies above by the pioneering aviators and their flying machines. The end result is the propagation of the enduring myth of a gentlemanly sport of equals which stood in splendid isolation to the bloody carnage below. The authors' account of Baron von Richthofen is rich and compelling and goes a considerable way to removing the veneer applied to the man post-war(s). The narrative charts the history and psychology of the former cavalryman; whom both bored and disillusioned with the ground war, effectively wrote a letter to his superiors demanding the chance to take to the skies with a view to rekindling the spirit of the chase and the lost romance of war. By interviewing former adversaries; reprinting letters from Richthofen to his Mother, and retelling and analysing Richthofen's own accounts of how he sought and achieved his victories, the author provides a balanced, and ultimately fair assessment of Richthofen which stands in stark contrast to pre-existing accounts of vilification or celebration, by virtue of one simple facet: the consideration of Richthofen as essentially mortal; warts and all. An entirely welcome and engaging review of one of history's most celebrated; talented, and lethal aviators who stood at the forefront of technological advance which was used to recapture the spirit of a supposedly chivalrous past.
My copy is Hardback 1927 edition by Garden City Publishing. I wanted to post a 4 1/2 stars. The book was a historical analysis of his life and exploits. The people interviewed were numerous, his mother, his fellow flyers, several Allied pilots whom he had shot out of the skies, his commanding officers, others and his letters home. At the time of the writing the German and Allied records where open for a detailed search. He was credited with downing 80 planes. Both sides would drop streamered cans containing info on the condition of the their downed pilots. There was an honor between the air corps. Times sure have changed. This was one of the best quarters I've ever spent.
I received a kindle version of the book courtesy of Net Galley and the publisher with the expectation that I would write a review that I would share on my blog, Net Galley, Goodreads, Amazon, Linked In, Facebook, Twitter and Google Plus.This is a reprint of a biography of Baron von Richthofen that was written shortly after World War I. It is the first book by Floyd Gibbons that I have read. This book is engaging and a fairly quick read. What I found most interesting is that the author was able to interview several individuals and had access to Richthofen's letters due to the time period in which it was written. Gibbons does a good job of describing the "Red Baron's" life with the major focus of the book being his exploits as the ace of the German Air Force during World War I. He reveals why he flew a red plane, his need for having little trophies made for each verified kill, the struggle to become a elite pilot, etc.I recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in World War I and in particular the exploits of the "Red Baron".
This is a fascinating insight into one of Germany's greatest pilots. His drive and love of flying made him the hero he became; there was only one way his legend was going to end. Great book, bitted and bobbed a little but I thoroughly enjoyed it.
This book was outstanding. It held me spellbound all the way through it. The writer did a perfect job of building you up to a high level o fEnthusiasm then keeps you there and brings you back to reality slowly . outstanding. Thanks for sharing this book. Randall
I love reading old texts that are free of the current day political correctness and give between the lines insight the the attitudes and thinking of the time. This book was written shortly before Hitler's rise to power and is very in-depth concerning not only the activities of the Baron but his victims as well. It was still a time of respect when the book was written. The research that was done was amazing.
Was given this book as a child, this character is hard to hate......
Always and forever good.
It's one of the great books in the Just William series, of which I hope to read more of in the future.Filled with laughter and hilarious in most places, it turns out I quite enjoyed it.Hope you enjoy it also!
Definitely a classic! I read this book every so many years just to reinforce all the incredible information that is in this book. This is the second volume in a series of five books I believe which Powell did an incredible job of compiling all the information from a large number of books written by Annie Besant and C W Leadbeater as well as occasional tidbits from Blavatsky and other authors. It focuses solely on the Astral body, world and anything that touches on that realm though it does have occasional asides about other realms though these are kept to a minimum and are only to elucidate a point he is making. For those who don't know this is a Theosophical book.
A must for those interested in understanding human nature at a deeper level.
This is series of 5 books edited by Colonel Arthur E. Powell. He very methodically combined information from a number of theosophical authors in the early part of the 20th century. These books are a wealth of esoteric information. They are more head centered than heart centered. However these books must be read in the following order: Etheric Double, Astral Body, Mental Body, Causal Body, and Solar System. Each builds on the last. Although not all are mentioned in Goodreads, I recommend ordering the Quest book editions. You can get them on Amazon or from Quest Books.First published in 1927 this book covers the astral body, its constitution and function, its use during sleep, and its use after death. It also covers the astral plane and its inhabitants. It is a good basic book on the astral body and the astral plane. Towards the end of the book there is a very interesting logical breakdown of emotions.
To date I have read this book 4 times, and with each read my understanding proliferates. It gives one of the best descriptions of the astral world and it's inhabitants I've ever read. This text was written by one of the most celebrated psychic, and Theosophist A E Powell. This is the 2nd book in a series of works that outlines the various bodies of a person, as well as the "body" of the Solar system, and it's 6th dimensional workings. The complete list in the series are, The Etheric double, The Astral Body, The Mental Body, The Causal body, and The Solar system. All the books are consistent in their style and detail. As you read about the wonders of the 4th dimension, a sense of awe, and inspiration unfolds. The level of detail is just such that a vivid visualization blossoms before the minds eye, and greatly enhances the curiosity of the reader. One such description is the viewing of a watch. When any object is seen from the astral world all views are seen at once. For instance you would see every view of every object in side, and outside of the watch simultaneously. Or in the case of a book, you would be able to see every page of a closed book, as though the pages were all laid out with the correct orientation. Time as a component of the 4th dimension does not enter the equation until you reach the higher sub-planes, when you can see the "history" of the object in all its stages of existent, from birth to dissolution. Because their are no specific sense organs in the astral body, the "entire" astral body can see, hear, taste, smell, and feel concurrently. Keep in mind you would experience the astral counter part of the five senses, which would be much more intense, because the experience does not have to go through the physical senses. The text also talks about the science behind, such phenomenon as disintegration(teleportation), materialization, and levitation, all by utilizing the etheric pressure which surrounds us constantly.Also remember that astral matter responds to the slightest thought. One simply has to think of some thing, or somewhere, and the surrounding matter reacts to become the thinker's thoughts. What on this plane is a nomenon in the mind's eye, becomes a phenomenon in the astral world that is objective. This manifestation is explain because 4 dimensional matter is more alive, and is known as elemental essence . It has quasi intelligence, and can seem to be a living thing to the uninitiated. It is this type of information that makes this book a good source to any "neophyte" who wishes to "remember" how to travel into the inner realms.Another section of the book talks about the vast types of inhabitants. From the astral corpse( shell, shade), to people in the dream state, people who have died, people who are waiting to reincarnate, thought forms, nature spirits, Astral bodies of animals, The Devas, Adepts and their students, The dark magician and his student, elemental essence, Elementals, Artificial Elementals (created by people to carry out their will). These and other "life forms" are covered in detail by the author.The 7 sub planes are talked about and what can be expected when one is balanced between them. The lowest of the sub astral plane extents below the surface of the earth. Its easy to see why hell was thought to be below ground. Only the most base and lonesome people go there, by default of their choice in maintaining a coarse, and low vibration. The highest sub-plane of the astral world is said to reach to the surface of the moon. Beyond that the heaven (5th dimension))world begins. According to the book, depending on your temperament, and personality type, you will naturally migrate to one of these sub levels. This condition can be changed by a change of character, and an act of will. Also knowledge of what to expect is a great plus. The author talks about the why of what people see of the astral world. A person can be awake on the astral plane, and live only in their imagination. They would be totally oblivious to the rest of the 4th dimension. There are groups of people who live in their stereotypical definition of heaven, with the angels flying around on clouds playing harps, and drinking milk and honey throughout eternity , while endlessly praising their version of God. This is what the person wants, and this is what they create. This will be experienced untill their soul cries out for change and expansion, this is called evolution. Also the author talks about how a person works out all the things they would have like to have done in the physical world, if only they had the fortitude, and resources to complete them. From being a rock star , to feeding the indigents, to solving all the world's problems and creating a utopia, to finally house training the family pet. All things are worked out in a grand series of what if scenarios. A person cannot go beyond themselves, until they first go through themselves.Another section of the book describes what an average person goes through when they die. The type of environment they create, the type of cities they inhabit. Keep in mind, some of these astral cities have been around for centuries, such as Agam Des, Retz, Damcar, Shamballa, Sat Dham, Akeviz, Kimtaved, Nampakbe, and of course Sahasra-dal-Kanwal of the lower heaven world. Adding to the wonder of such a "place" is that each person who has passed through, leaves a little of their creative design. It is highly stress that a person's moral character be develop to a high degree, least they abuse the possibilities that come with being able to transfer their consciousness to their astral body. The book goes further into detail as to what happens when you die in the astral world, the average stay there is from 20 to 30 years). If a person has over come certain character flaws, and has some knowledge of esoteric things, their stay in the astral world can be as little as 1 to 2 years, with some people by passing it altogether. The stage you pass into after the astral world(the heaven world) is beautifully describe in the 3rd series of his 5 books called the Mental body, of which I give a succinctly interesting review on. Walk, run, or astral project to audition this book, and view it the way you would a road map for a trip you are about to embark on. There's enough gaps in the map that there is a sense of adventure and the unknown, but enough information that you don't get lost.
Interest concepts..I don't believe everything in the book but found it very interesting.
I was curious to read about this man I'd heard of, but knew nothing. The book traces the turbulent rise of Benjamin Disraeli to become Prime Minister of England and confidant of Queen Victoria. It gives an excellent view of politics in all its hurly-burly but focuses more on the man Disraeli rather than on the politics in which the man was such an accomplished participant. This is a very sympathetic biography, well-written and insightful.
Although not as comprehensive as one would expect from the life of an important British politician, one does get to know some about his personality and the trials this man overcame to succeed in a very hostile environment. Nicely written, though somewhat romantic, but that is par for biographies dating to the 1920's. Worth a read, mainly as an introduction to Disraeli.
Great book, deplorable man.
This book was suggested by my mother, and how fitting, I finish it on Mother's Day! It started a bit slow for me, and I had to get into the writing style. About a third of the way in, the book took me away. The life of an ambitious man who tried and failed in youth, only to find his footing in politics with his oratory skills, which then made his entire life and career path.I really enjoyed reading about his strategy when figuring out politics, fellow men, and how he grew a surprising close relationship with Queen Victoria. I would recommend this book for a historic read on the Victorian era of England and how one man was such an influencer on so many diverse arenas.
This was a fascinating read. It's a novelistic biography. No one volume could really do Disraeli justice. AM gives a vivid sense of Dizzy's romantic nature, idealistic mind and practical intelligence. I hated the lack of dates in the text. This made it difficult to get a real sense of Dizzy's development. I also kept losing track of where we were in time. AM tracks his subject more through his developing principles than through chronology. AM shows Dizzy's political success and the ideals behind it but doesn't give any practical insight into the hows and whys of his political era. The book needed a little more inside baseball on Victorian politics. AM's portrait of Mary Ann was delightful. I would have liked more of it. I will definitely read more on Disraeli and perhaps even wear primroses on 4/19.
DISRAELI: A Picture of the Victorian Age. (1927). Andre Maurois. *****.	This is an excellent biography of Benjamin Disraeli (1804-1881) written for the average reader. Maurois (1885-1967) was a prolific French writer – primarily of biographies, and published over two dozen books during his lifetime. His real name was Emile Herzog, but he couldn’t use it because of a regulation that existed when his first book came out. At the time, he was in the military and members of the military could not publish books under their own names. Among his books were biographies of Balzac, Shelly, Byron, and Hugo. All were best sellers during his life. In this biography, he manages to accurately place Disraeli within the context of the Victorian Era and the politics that existed at the time. What it really explores is Disraelie’s principles that he adhered to during his career. He was a descendent of Venetian Jews, but was converted to the English church when he was a teenager. His father was a man who couldn’t be bothered with people, and who preferred to hide in his library and read and collect thousands of quotations from the various books he read. Disraeli started out with a law career, but gave it up because it was boring. He eventually ended up in Parliament and slowly worked his way up to the top as Prime Minister. He made friends and enemies along the way. You will meet them all in this book: Lords John Russell, Durham, Stanley, Melbourne, Glastone, and Sir Robert Peel. You will also meet Queen Victoria, who at first disliked Disraeli but later came to appreciate his knowledge and honesty. The book presents a true picture of the Victorian Age in a manner that you will not likely enounter in any other book. Hightly recommended.
The French author Andre Maurois published this biography of the English statesman Benjamin Disraeli in the late 1920's. Its strength and its weakness are the author's artistic license, which give the book the feel of a novel at times, rather than a dry collection of dates and facts. For example, the author will frequently refer to a phrase or a thought that Disraeli had at a given moment, as if it were as cut and dried in a calendar as the date for the beginning of an election or a war. That keeps the book from being boring. But for someone who came into it with virtually no idea of who Disraeli was, it sometimes left me wanting more definition, more depth on political policies. Instead, we get a lot of personality and feelings and the shape of his relationship with colleagues and rivals. There is very little in the way of dates, legislation passed, political philosophy...and a bit too much of his moods and feelings as he negotiates his political rise.
I found this book interesting but it has been years it would deserve a reread to be fair to it.
Despite being a translation, the book is engaging, with just enough wit and bon mots to make reading it a pleasure.
Today’s posting is about a book I’ve just completed last night and a movie I saw today.The book is titled: “Disraeli: A Picture of the Victorian Age“, (1936©) reprinted in 1980, and written by André Maurois. Maurois is actually the nom de plume for Émile Salomon Wilhelm Herzog, but interesting enough, he legally changed his real name to that for which he was famous. Maurois was in the French military when he wrote his first book and the military was banned from publishing.This book is the second I’ve read from the Time-Life Reading Program series which I collected back in the 1980’s. More specifically, this is the book upon which I based my decision to begin purchasing the series. I originally read this book in my young teenage years. I don’t recall if I was in the eighth grade of grammar school or a freshman in high school. At any rate, it was a fantastic look at another time (Victorian Age) and political system (British Parliament) which combined political maneuvers with a true romantic background story and it captivated me.After his wife (Mary Anne) dies from old age (and cancer), Disraeli begins going through their effects in preparation for moving out of her ancestral home which must be passed on to its inheritor:“Every fortnight for thirty-three years, Mary Anne had cut her husband’s hair, and every time the harvest had been garnered in a small sealed packet. He found hundreds of them.”This struck me, even as a teen, as such a personal and loving act (both the cutting and the saving of the cuttings) that I believe it set a standard for me to judge male/female relationships. To this day, when I watch the movie “Phenomenon“, starring John Travolta and Kyra Sedgwick (and Forest Whitaker), I am reminded of this book. If you’ve never seen the movie, there is a tremendously sensual scene in the movie where Sedgwick shaves Travolta and cuts his hair. By “sensual” I mean it exudes sexuality without having any “sex” in the scene at all.By way of contrast, I discussed the above quote with my daughter and she felt is was “creepy” and “like a stalker”. She felt there was no romance/affection in either act, at all.Another point, which may be of interest to only me – I’ve been “saving” this book for almost 40 years, knowing I was going to re-read it, but in no hurry, because it was going to be like re-meeting an old friend. I don’t often re-read books because most of my reading tends to be technical in nature. I do enjoy re-reading some books – novels in particular. I assume it is because they engage me without trying to teach me. (That’s just a guess…) In this case, I was waiting for the above story, but I did not recall it was told after the wife’s passing. When Mary Anne died from cancer, I briefly convinced myself that I must have read a different book when I was young and I had purchased the series based on a complete mistake! Not that it would have mattered so much, but it seemed an irony that I was looking forward to meeting my old friend, only to find out I would be meeting a distant relative (a book about the same topic, but by a different author). So I got a chuckle (to myself) when I found it was the correct book.No, I haven’t said much about the book – by way of review, anyway. Suffice it to say, it’s a very well written book, a fast read, a romanticized biography, and a fascinating story of a man who rises to great stature on the strength of his intelligence, ability and determination. Highly recommended!! As an aside, on researching Maurois, I found dozens of great quotes which you will no doubt be seeing over the coming months.
This book is a true testament of what can be accomplished in spite of extraordinary odds.
Flowery and well-written biography of Disraeli, the dandy/prime minister.
A good overview of esoteric doctrines - particularly pertaining to the idea of a spiritual centrality. This book is informative though a bit dated, and Guénon veers into some rather odd territory at times (particularly interesting are sections which lay precedent for the ideas of a hollow Earth, Hyperborea, and other ideas that would influence the infamous Thule Society preceding the Third Reich). All in all worth the read, but more so as a window into the esoteric theories of the late 19th century than as a practical guide - for which there are many superior volumes extant today.
I LOVE Beskow's artwork. This one offers more splendid selections and seasonal work, too. It's fun to read a collection of poetry about each month of the year for the "New Year" (okay, I'm a few weeks late, but it was checked-out at the library!) I admit that I wasn't really impressed with the poetry, but perhaps some of the original charm was lost in the English translation. Get this for the artwork, though!!!
Poignant AutobiographyWell written, poignant autobiography. Not a lot of "action" but good descriptions of the psychological effects of combat. Definitely would recommend.
Excellent account of the war in the trenches during the battle of the Somme by a British officer during World War I.
ReadNot to bad I would readily read on a train bound for any were as some of this is a drudge
The edition I read was published under the pseudonym "Mark VII" in 1927. Very, very graceful and elegiac account of experiences from July 1916 to January 1917, when Plowman was wounded and sent back to England. Plowman was a poet, and it shows! Very hard to find this book (thank you, interlibrary loan)!
HarrowingAn unusual account of a Junior Officer fighting in the mud of WW1 in 1916. You wouldn’t joke about mud in the trenches again. He set out as a pacifist and ended up fighting although he doesn’t really explain that. The text often feels very immediate and although written in 1928 retains that quality. The extraordinary waste of young lives is constantly confronting him.
I was prepared to really dislike this book, but read it anyway for my book club. I came away really liking it because it talks about the absurdities of war. Real interesting insights.
It is very hard to do justice to the magnificence of The Master of Hestviken. And there is no question that Sigrid Undset totally deserved the Nobel Prize that she was awarded in 1928. The M of H is a tetralogy in about 1000 pages. Believe it or not, I first read it way over 55 years ago when this bookish teen found the one-volume Knopf edition on the library shelves. And it lasts! The grip was a real grip - a golden hook, and not just an old rusty one destined to disappoint. Indeed, the M of H is far better 55 years later. Some people may say: "A tretalogy about medieval Norway? Yuk!" But the point is that, although the M of H takes place in medieval Norway, it is really about characters who are definitely humans like you and me and for whom Ms. U claims our empathy and sympathy, for their complex struggles, their heartbreak, their endurance, their complex interior lives, and their humanity in all its good and bad. You know, people in the Middle Ages were, in fact, people. They worried about money, they wanted to get a good night's sleep, they asked themselves whether they had married wisely and/or were good parents, they suffered from angst and insecurity, they doubted their moral worthiness, and so forth..Ms. U pulls us towards these people through her focus on their actions, words, and thoughts. She does not ever explain their cultural environment. Rather, their environment speaks silently only through the characters' actions. In this way, we see them in context, but we do not ever lose sight of them as persons. For example, there is a brief passage in which the protagonist realizes that his friendship has been unbalanced in the sense that his true and reliable friend is forbearing of self and has always given more to the friendship than has the protagonist. It does not matter that this significant realization takes place while the friends are talking before an open hearth in a lonely wooden manor house on the edge of a forest. However, I have to note that Ms. U is a mistress of the explicit description of the natural environment and the weather. And I think this is a tool of bringing us closer to the characters because, with them, we also can sense what it is like to feel snow against our faces, to ski, if we have been so fortunate, through a winter forest, to lie on a warm rock in autumn, to shudder when bed blankets freeze to the wall, etc.There are few essential characters in the books although there are numbers of persons who appear in it and take roles at one time or another. But there are only four characters with a complete backstory, and only two of these with a completely described interior life. The four are a family consisting of mother, father, daughter, and son. The latter two are the father and son. The other characters are well drawn, but Ms. U creates a deep sense of the reality of personhood by focusing her greatest energies on these four. Like her reticence on cultural environment, this spareness creates humans who are alive on the page.Also, as to characterization, it is a marvelous thing that Ms. U creates male characters who ring true and are actually men and not caricatures of men. This for me is an example of Ms. U's power as an artist - her ability to create full-fleshed and primary characters who are not of her gender.Otherwise, it is all here - love, hate, jealousy, diagnosable madness, dysfunction, regret, love. I won't give plot details for fear of spoiling, But I can say that, all four of the books can be categorized as the bildungsroman of the protagonist Olav Audunsson. We meet him at about age 16 as a foster son and orphan. We say farewell when he seems to be far along into his fifties. He is intensely alive. As a young man, he is beautiful, stubborn, yet insecure and aware of his youthfulness, and passionate. He is called upon - and calls upon himself - to be self-sacrificing. As a mature man he is ruthlessly introspective and harsh in his judgments of himself. His self-examination uses the tools of religion which I would expect were the tools available at the time. (Be prepared for this!) But the use of the tools adds a layer of rock-solid emotional intensity to the self-analysis. Just magnificent. As for the first two books of the tetralogy, we have young love and young sex, accompanied by stubbornness, anger, resistance, and violence; we have waywardness, ambiguous unfaithfulness and regret; we have separation that requires immense loyalty and endurance; we have friendship and abandonment; we have the bitterness of success. We have a girl, but essentially shunned, by her family (hey! Just like today.). We have success and bitterness together. We have the hero's intensely tender conscience and his love and loyalty that requires him not to ease it. We have immense sacrifices that touch on the integrity of personhood.As for the second two books of the tetralogy, we have grief and an increasing sense of self-recrimination and renunciation. We have a situation that essentially brings about his death when he regards himself or his past life as the cause of the situation. But, at the end, we see that, in the world as opposed to in eternity, his life has been never understood by others and that his memories and his interior life disappear like smoke. The last pages of this book are exalted, but heart-breaking.
Somehow I got distracted while reading this fabulous book. I will return to it. Undset creates an entire world deep characters.
Sigrid Undset, winner of the Nobel Prize for literature in 1928, seems to have been largely forgotten in America. And that is truly a shame. While she experienced success in her native Norway with her early modern novels, it his her pair of Medieval epics, "Kristin Lavransdatter" and "Master of Hestviken" (the latter was published as "Olav Audunsson" in Norway; its English translation was given the the title seen above. More marketable to American readers that way, I suppose was the logic) that are her great works and the source of her global acclaim. It is not lightly that I hand out 5-star ratings, but I feel confident declaring that Master of Hestviken is one of the greatest novels I have ever had the pleasure to read. It is nothing less than the entire life story of one 13th century Norwegian man, Olav. Undset has a deft touch with her characters, they are so utterly human that they seem to jump off of the page and into the readers' hearts. I'm not sure I have ever empathized with a novel's characters more easily than I did with Olav and those dear to him. Undset's prose, as translated into English by Arthur G. Chater, is effortlessly evocative, drawing us right into its setting. While much of this tale is deeply sad, even heartbreaking, the payoff that comes in the last 30 pages left me teary eyed. The major theme is that of the echoing ramifications of living with unshriven sin. Never once did the book lag, over the length of its near 1000 pages. These sorts of books don't really get written anymore, at that is to our collective loss. "Master of Hestviken" is a masterpiece.
This is a novel in 4 parts, and I have only read part 1 "The Axe" so far (separate review). I am so reluctant to put this down, because it is excellent. But I have to finish The Brothers Karamazov before a book club meeting, and it was a little insane to try to read this one at the same time. But I will definitely come back and finish the other three parts. It is classic Undset-- beautifully written, gripping, challenging. An epic with deep insight into human nature. So far, I do not like this as well as Kristin Lavransdatter, but it is definitely worth tackling if you are a fan of Undset's work.
Consists of 4 novels - The Axe, The Snake Pit, In the Wilderness and The Son Avenger. The first book is action packed from start to finish - a bloodthirsty tale of seduction, revenge and thwarted love - themes carried on throughout. The novels trace the life of the hero Olav and his family. Very strong narrative and characterisation, with immense detail on working a huge family estate in 13th Century Norway. Conflict between his religious faith and a deed committed early in his life haunts him forever. The middle two books have much less action and more reflective, building up to climax. A very profound book. The Axe is a favourite and a compulsive read.
Sigrid is an AMAZING epic tale weaver--this series is like the "Kristin Lavransdatter" series--so incredibly freaking GOOD. I NEVER get tired of her writing!! I spend my free time on a quest for books like these. Elusive....
This is an amazing book. I read it 20 years ago and still the emotions attached to it are haunting. SUCH a picture of a faraway world. One bit I liked:When he had finished his prayers, he seated himself in a corner to hear the singing to the end. He thought of what Asbjorn had told him one day of the art of reckoning - how the nature of God was revealed in figures, through the law and order that reigned in them.  Arithmetica , he thought it had such a fine sound and all that the priest had expounded about the harmony of figures - how they swelled and cleft one another according to mystic and immovable laws; it was like being given an insight into one of the heavenly kingdoms; on golden chains of numbers the whole of creation was suspended, and angels and spirits ascended and descended along the links. And his heart was exalted in longing that his life also might rest in Gods hand like one of these golden links - a reckoning in which there was no fault. When that which now weighed upon him should be effaced like false notches upon a tally-stick.
Pure diamond. A must read.
Nerantula by Panait IstratiIf I make a short, mean comment- strange threesome turns into an even more awkward… foursomeIn Greek, nerantula is supposed to mean a small bitter orange tree.And in this work, it the nickname (I guess) of the heroine.I must say that these notes refer to an adaptation for the National Radio and not to the unabridged story.At times, the storyline seemed a bit weird, even if it is perhaps just modern and fresh.There is a kind of threesome which turns into an even more difficult to envisage foursome.That is -If we are not taking into account the exceptional, larger than life profile of Nerantula.She loves two boys- one is the story teller- Marko and the other is Epaminonda.She is very open and dashing about it, when he tells Marko that she loves him and another boy.The two rivals become friends as well, even if they dispute the big prize in various ways.In one test of their supposed worthiness and perhaps manhood, they are supposed to cross the Danube.Nerantula is trying to prevent Marko from taking part in this competition, because she feels he would not make it.All in all, she has a very good heart and comes across not as a feeble, undecided girl, who cannot make up her mind.In fact, the opposite may be the case.Nerantula seems to have such a great, generous heart that she gives her affection away and is unable to limit herself to just one man…or boy.But her generosity becomes more than apparent, even proved beyond a shadow of a doubt, when she forgives Epaminonda.The latter attacks her with a knife, hurt and jealous.Unwilling to share her affection, he decides that enough is enough and in a violent attack wounds the woman he loves.When the authorities deal with the case, the victim is unwilling to accuse him and even says:-	My beloved Epaminonda, why didn’t you tell me you love me so muchI guess I was thinking that Epaminonda has nailed it.Instead of provoking hostility, he managed to convince his victim that he is the one, the man who loves beyond reason.But, Nerantula is unpredictable above all else and disappears.The two friends look for her in vain, until they find her in a whore house- if I got it right- caring for another man she fell for.This third rival is in fact a case of charity more than love, for Nerantula found him paralyzed in the hospital.The man is a proof of what positive psychology is arguing and has tested in multiple cases.When an accident happens, resulting in serious injury, the victim tends to suffer for a few months and have a lower level of life satisfaction.But people tend to bounce back in a phenomenon called -	Hedonic adaptationIt works unfortunately in the other way too.We adapt to the good things that happen_ I have two great macaws, which are the most fantastic creatures on earth.Not only I adapted to having them, but right now I am shooting a water pistol of them because they are annoying and really, really loud.I stopped about half way through to let you read and find about the other part of a very good tale.
A good story but I cannot give 5 stars to it because I did not really like the green-eyed girl (too perfect and naive) whereas the english blue-eyed lady was far more interesting and would have been a great challenge to Lupin.What I found old-fashioned was that Arsene Lupin can be a thief but is offended when a lady is...Fortunately the cunning side of Lupin having fun of his ennemies and the poetry of the love story saves the book!
A crime, a secret, a hidden treasure, a young lady with green eyes... a very typical Arsène Lupin novel, with every ingredient for me to like it. This time solving a mystery, but he still manages to baffle a police inspector. "T'as du feu, Rodolphe?" xD Loved it.
The most endearing novel that I've read. My FAVORITE book, no contest. Old-fashioned charm with subtle romance and lots of thrill. Too bad I don't have my own copy. It's so frustrating, I could almost cry.
This was not one of my favorite books by Hill. The story was cute, but I didn't like the main guy a lot. He seemed to come to faith a little to conveniently right when he wanted to get with the girl.
Rachel Rainsford is alone in the world, which is probably why she made such a colossal mistake as answering that ad to be a companion to a "sweet old lady" somewhere far away. So begins a story of HUMAN TRAFFICKING that totally caught me by surprise. Way to be relevant almost a hundred years after going into print!!!Thankfully Ray (as she is later called) has a young man named Chan (ok it threw me too) to act as rescuer. Even if he's not particularly good at the job. Lots of adventure ensues that takes you across the country in the 1920s and all the way to a lunatic asylum (so not politically correct, but this is the way things were back then. Deal with it). Exciting and with just the right balance of faith and romance to round this out into a stunning example of Grace's work.
Enduring love story is accurate for this bookI am a huge fan of Grace L. Hill. No surprise that I like this book as well. Has a lot of the things I like in a good read: mystery, adventure, and a sense of hope that true love is out there. I appreciate the clean, old fashioned writing.
Grace Livingston Hill is an acquired taste, having quite a quaint style. Some of her books are really good, some ok and some that aren't so good.I happen to like her style, although I do have to be in the right frame of mind for it. This one is a favourite of mine, and one I've read several times over the years. According to Goodreads, I last read it 3 years ago.I liked the rescue, and then continual escapes (and another rescue) that happens. Chan was a great hero and his search for something better was well told. Rachel was a gentle heroine, and it was nice that it was her manner and convictions that made Chan want to be a better person and find the peace and relationship with God that Rachel has.
I struggled with this one. Just had a hard time getting into it. It was cheesy, preachy, and pretty slow. It was clean and had some fun ideas I must admit though I had to skim through some of it. Maybe just the mood I was in but not one I will be reading again.
I love her books.
One of the best books Grace ever wrote!!
this book was written in the 1930's...i totally love the way women used to dress....the funny way they said things back then...all the slang....i just love this particular author.
Seems like a bargain to me.
Obviously not his best work. ;)
Pretty but monotonous and, except for one poem which is only a marginal exception, almost instantly forgettable.
James Joyce can be funny!
Frankly, this was godawful. Only James Joyce freaks will have any interest, and they'll be dismayed. Go read "Oxen of the Sun" a fiftieth time and don't bother plunking down the $20 to score a beat-up copy of the one edition available to mortal men.
Nothing of too much interest here, almost instantly forgettable.
I have a character named Plumly featured in future Ebooks of my children's fantasy series. I'm honoring Ruth Plumly Thompson, who carried on with the Oz books after L. Frank Baum's death. The Scraps storyline was excellent in this one.
Like any sea voyage, long stretches of the doldrums broken up by some interesting landfalls...
So romantic!This is not a mystery in the sense of dead bodies or stolen pearls, but it is the mystery of an identity and a missing man. Yes there are suggestions along the lines we see in William Smith, but this is primarily a sweet romance, and very enjoyable too. Highly recommended.
Another lovely read.
This is my Mum’s book and not something I would normally read but the text on the back sounded interesting so I gave it a try. Really enjoyed it! Loved the suspense and intrigue the whole way through and a bit of romance too. Really good enjoyable book.
Not a mystery, per se, and I wish some things were better explained — but I enjoyed it on the whole.
Maybe 3 stars. This 'interlude' is from the perspective of Jon as a young boy. I wish I had grown up with only a few hours of lessons from a visiting Mademoiselle and then the freedom to play the rest of the day!
This book is amazing. The imagery throughout is wonderful. The characters are perfect. I don't think any other book I've ever read has done better at creating such deep, believable, consistent, interesting characters. (Perhaps Winnie-the-Pooh? Even some of those are caricatures. I can't think of any others that come close.)One thing about this series that I can't stop thinking about is how similar their era seems to ours, only ninety years earlier. The whole saga has that feeling. In this book the author seems to throw in a little philosophizing via his pseudo-self, young Jolyon, that I don't agree with. But I think that's my only complaint about this book, and it's not a big one. I loved the ending. I would recommend this trilogy to everyone I know. It is worth all the time spent on it.
A beautiful end to the Forsyte saga, and to the Forsyte family, as a up-and-coming, possessive middle class.
This is an amazingly delightful and witty book; a wonderful discovery that my Grandfather led me to. The first half was enjoyable ... all the delight of a swashbuckling romance with a noble hero ... the second half turned everything in the first half on its head, with multiple surprises I never saw coming. The dialogue had me laughing out loud ... Wren has a cleverness about him that I liken to Wodehouse, but for him the stakes are higher, and the climax is more satisfying. A truly lovely book that I will enjoy reading again in a few years. Thanks, Grandfather! I had no idea I would enjoy it so much! If only I could find a copy of the silent film made around the same time the book was written, I would love to see that.
This book should be, along with Beau Geste and Beau Ideal, required reading for all boys in every school in the world. This book in particular focuses on duty and morals. Sometimes the two can conflict, other times they go hand in hand. It strains the importance of the two for being essential elements of being a good soldier, or Beau Sabreur which translates into literally "good swordsman," hence the name.
I read Beau Jest a long time ago and, as I recall, really enjoyed it. I wasn't even aware that it was the first of a trilogy, so when that came to light I was excited, but this book wasn't nearly as exciting. That might be because of my advancing years, but the whole thing was very confusing.
This book was written in 1926 and it is a very good adventure story concerning France’s colonial empire in Africa. Frances’s army, diplomats and Legionaries are all involve in this classic tale of intrigue with plenty of danger, dilemmas, escapes and con jobs to keep you entertained and guessing what’s next. It is a story with several very unexpected twists and turns. A little off-putting is the many strange locals and names. It is tough to follow the geography which when I’m reading such as adventure story of historical fiction, I like to understand where the general locations are and the story is taking place. A few well-placed maps by the publisher would have been nice and enhanced the experience for me. But that difficulty doesn’t really take anything away from the adventure.
This book is incredible! The author’s sarcasm comes through his writing in the best way and he had me laughing out loud many times. The first part of the book ends in a huge plot twist and the second half of the book is a whirlwind of deceit and more plot twists. Just when the reader thinks everything is wrapping up, the author throws in another plot twist on the last page just for kicks. Great read!
Reread Dec 2012. And as a footnote to the brief review below, my 10 (now 13) did read all of these books and LOVED them as have all the young men I've recommended them to. --Cracking great story. Not as suitable for young boys as Beau Geste (only because there's a bit of smooching in one part and I can't see my 10yo getting in to that ((nor do I wish it:)))Fabulous fun. P.C. Wren was a funny guy. Love the humor.
It ends the story jus about over 1/2 way & then changes persons & perspectives & goes back to a prior event......Upto then it was about a fellah who joins the French Army & works his way through being a cavalry officer, to spy, to envoy in the North African theatre of the French Empire. The writing borders on a farce or what was once called a screwball comedy if it was a film & its alright in that respect as a change of pace for me but in truth Im probably revealed at the get-out clause of the change as above..... This is NOT Beau Geste part 2 in any shape or form, even Doug Mc Clure would have avoided this script......
well i liked this book a lot it was great i recommend reading beau geste first that is another great book.
i don't undersdtand what is writing in this book ,but i read all the book i don't recommend this book, i don't know if the transaltion to arabic language isn't good
I really like Malinowski's style. Elegant yet simple in writing, respectful yet sharp in argument. This books deals with the claims of the school of psycho-analysis that the Oedipus complex is at the origin of culture. By drawing on fieldwork data obtained in the Trobriand Isles, Malinowski shows that the Oedipus complex is not the cause, but a by-product of social organization. Initially, he proposes the notion of a "nuclear family complex", of which Oedipus is only a specific case, that depends on the social organization and culture of the people in question. To support his case, the anthropologist provides a comparative description of the Western and of the Melanesian family, focusing on the child's development and his sexual growth. He proceeds to deal with Freud's theory of the "primeval crime" as the origin of culture put forward in "Totem and Taboo" (where Freud imagines a primeval horde, in which the sons killed the father and ate him, and them replaced him with a totem and established the taboo of incest to atone for their crimes). I am largely ignorant of Freud's work, but Malinowski is pretty convincing in his rebuttal. He also deals with the questions of transition from nature to culture, the evolution of family, its role as the primary basis of social organization, the adjustment of instincts into sentiments and cultural ties, and so on. Although a bit outdated, Malinowski's theories are insightful. If objections might be raised to some specific details of his theory, he is nonetheless right in its main point, which concerns the psycho-analytical theory. What he proposes is a collaboration between the fields of psycho-analysis and anthropology, which could be fruiful for both. The former school's mistake is that of thinking up theories concerning the whole of humanity and its history from academic or medical cabinets in Europe. Malinowski gladly admits that the principles and hypotheses of psycho-analysts may be right, but he warns against their transformation into a doctrine and shows how these ideas can be incomplete or partially wrong because of the psycho-analysts ignoration of other cultures and societies. On the other hand, the anthropologist can provide through his fieldwork research, the data necessary to amend, improve and refine the psycho-analytical theory. This book is an example of how the latter theory can be used by anthropologists and how they can identify its shortcomings and adjust is to empirical data.
I've just browsed through the book and find some parts that are concerned with qualitative research interesting. But all in all it is not beneficial to me. I left it unfinished.
nice and short
I really enjoyed this book and even better to be read after My Life and Work by Henry Ford.
Some timeless insights (and hard common sense) on the traits and thinking patterns that make a good owner operator type CEO.
I almost gave up on this book because it started off as random advice with no context. But once the story started everything started to make sense and I found myself really enjoying it towards the end. The early automobile industry reminds me a lot of Silicon Vally today. I think this book is a great read for anyone in the tech industry or who wants to be a CEO some day.
A different relling of the early Judaochristian creation mythology, this expands the stories and gives a broader picture.
It's interesting...not scripture but soo interesting.
Unlike the work of other historians of his time (e.g. Lovejoy or Hazard), Cassirer's scholarship has aged remarkably well. Cassirer's project in this book is to baptize Bruckhardt's narrative in Hegelianism and create a more robust intellectual history of Renaissance thought. And while such ambitious big-picture narratives should always be treated with some degree of skepticism, Cassirer presents a substantive account. I only give it four stars because of the historiographical teleology which he (unfortunately) inherits from his Hegelian bent.Cassirer repeatedly demonstrates that he is incredibly well-read in both primary and secondary texts, carefully quoting and referencing particular writers and vaulting between them with ease and finesse as he describes the evolution of Renaissance ideas with the birth of the individual and the epistemological and ontological consequences for understanding the cosmos.There's innumerable fascinating details in this text such as the influence of German mystics like Meister Eckhart on Nicholas of Cusa and subsequent nominalism, the centrality of the doctrine of Eros in Floretine psychology, the birth of the modern conceptions of experience and infinity, how magic and the occult arose out of the modern understanding of causation, the construction of the modern notion of space out of the fracturing of Aristotelian ontology, the introduction of the subject-object problem, and so much more.This is a great text for anyone interested in learning about the major trends and changes of Renaissance philosophy explained with acute clarity. Cassirer renders abstract concepts and arguments surprisingly accessible. Even if some corrections have been made to his text over time, it still holds up as an impressive overview of a critical period in intellectual history.
English boarding houses seem to be a rich topic for authors to explore, given the fact that many different ages and personalities are thrown together because, let's face it, they have no where else to go. Patrick Hamilton, one of my new favorite author discoveries (thank you, Doug) seems to be a master at this. This is his first novel, written when he was 21, and is so much fun to read that it's almost a shame. Many laugh out loud moments, such great dialogue, done in a most original way, and a pretty perfect ending, made this a much needed escape for me. I loved every word.My first Patrick Hamilton book was "Slaves of Solitude", also set in a boarding house, with darker themes, but also lots of humor. Now I can't wait to read more, although I understand that he gets deeper into noir in his later novels. No matter, I'm hooked now. Do yourself a favor and discover him for yourself.
I seriously love Patrick Hamilton. This wasn't as "dark" as Twenty Thousand Streets or Hangover Square, but it nonetheless captured the deep, resounding sadness that each of his characters harbors, generally about how they feel inadequate in some capacity. He manages to craft a page-turner out the lives of 7-8 Londoners who live in a house together and are BEYOND ordinary, it's almost painful to imagine these people in real life. By the end of the novel, you feel like you've known them forever and you're just an unnamed tenant of Craven House. I also am just desperately in love this period of time; Hamilton makes sure to cover pre-WWI, WWI, and post-WWI through the eyes of his characters. I think what I love about Hamilton's writing the most is that although his books and plays are surrounded by war, rarely, if ever, do we actually SEE the war. Rather, we are told of its effects on survivors and family back home in London. I've found this period of time fascinating since being introduced to the war poetry of the mid WWI & WWII era in college by a Brit Lit professor who was actually British! what a concept!
To think I have gotten this far in life without reading this book is alarming. How does a writer who produced such gems as "Craven House" and "The Slaves of Solitude" fade from the collective memory? It is a Travesty.Craven House, like the Slaves of Solitude, is about a boarding house and the tenants living therein. Both books are very funny and very sad. The difference between them is that Craven House is about the promise and hope of youth; The Slaves is about the dissipation and despair of ageing. They are both phenomenally Good Reading.In Craven House, Patrick Hamilton has captured the essence of a place: the memories contained within its walls, the echoes still heard in its empty rooms after the people have gone; the nostalgia of shared days and years within a house. In his preface to the 1943 edition (the book was originally published in 1926), the author mentions two flaws in the book: "congestion" of style, and sentimentality. You have to read his books to understand what the congestion of style means, but in his own words, this style is what gives his books "gusto and high spirits". It's true and anyone who would want him to change it was crazy. As for the sentimentality, I personally loved it and it gave the ending just the right touch.The last thing the author worries about in the new edition is that the story will be dated after 16 years. It goes without saying that to readers of almost 100 years in the future, stories like these are a glimpse into a bygone era of which we cannot know anything except through reading such books, and to us they are essential.
Hamilton's 1st novel, written when he was 21 - brilliantly sets out the themes he was to write about in subsequent novels.
What a lovely read so far...funny
[Being one of my all time favourite novelists].This one's warmer and more conventional perhaps than the Hamilton Blockbusters, but still gorgeous. It's worth noting too for how autobiographical it probably is (Chiswick, early career, boarding houses, disappearing fathers). Master Wildman's schooldays should sit alongside Copperfield's for the accuracy and comedy of that picture. The dialogue between him and Elsie - trying ever so hard to be dismissive and clever - is just perfect. I know it's a cliche, but I always love a nineteen thirties capitalised Observation About Something Trite (I'll Trite You, young lady). At his best, it's like a timeless classic British sitcom (Diary of a Nobody meets a better-run Fawlty Towers), complete with a playful, meddling narrator. Hamilton does a terrific buffoon. He has a sublime ear for pomposity and duffers' idiom. He does lower middle class and working class smalltalk with more empathy than the best Eastenders writer. These are outwardly small, banal lives - but what heart. That remembered moment where Wildman junior doesn't return his father's searching look for approval. Unforgettable. And, for once, an ending we Absolutely, Definitely Wanted.
Funny (ha ha), funny (odd), brilliant social comedy punctured by moments of real poignancy and emotion. Most surprisingly, as the plot of this book develops, it turns out to be a rallying call to the disempowered. I loved it.
I came to this recently, after having read a good deal of Patrick Hamilton, beginning with NYRB's Twenty Thousand Streets Under the Sky. I was delighted to locate the Black Spring Press 2008 Edition, along with Through a Glass Darkly, a Hamilton biography.My review consists simply of this: There is a finesse in this book, a seamless, a blend of domestic horror and absurdist comedy. If allowed, I would ask each reader to sample the chapter describing the Russian lady's inaugural dinner. I was not surprised to find humor in his early work, but I was delighted to find myself laughing aloud at the almost screwball comedy of this scene. The playwright is evident.
AddictedI'm so taken with Patrick Hamilton's writing I can scarcely approach the end of one of his books without worrying it'll be the last one I haven't yet read. He writes like Elizabeth Taylor (no, the novelist, not the actor) with a generous topping of (usually) gentle humour. Understated, introspective, brilliantly observed and, to me, unputdownable. I wish I had known him.
Once one of my favourite writers, but not as good as I remembered now I am older
This book is a joy. Yes, Hangover Square and The Slaves of Solitude are Patrick Hamilton's masterpieces however this book is every bit as enjoyable. Playful, jaunty, and very sentimental, it is interesting to read Hamilton in a more positive mood - before the cynicism and darkness really took hold. Craven House was the first major novel by Patrick Hamilton and was published in 1926, and captures that moment when, following World War 1, the certainties of the Edwardian way of life eroded until English society was changed for ever. Hamilton's own family experienced their own slow, inexorable slide down the social scale throughout Patrick Hamilton's childhood. The Craven House of the title is a boarding house in west London, similar to the one Hamilton's own family lived in at Chiswick. The setting allows Hamilton to explore the shifting, uncertain world of the English boarding house. The characters that populate this house are lovingly chronicled with horrified fascination. On the surface each is well mannered and genteel. Scratch the surface and there is much more going on. As with other books by this wonderful writer, his acute powers of observation enrich all the characters with little phrases and idiosyncrasies that are clearly drawn from real life and so authentically evoke a sense of time and place, and are all described in Hamilton's gloriously atmospheric prose.There is barely disguised tension between the occupants of Craven House, in addition to an intergenerational conflict being slowly fought between the young people and their elders. Like a slow pressure cooker, the tale slowly and inexorably builds to a memorable conclusion over the fifteen years that the story takes place (1911-1926). Patrick Hamilton was a master and this book, whilst not regarded as one of his more significant works, is funny, absurd, poignant, and downright wonderful.
The language of the book is very much of its time and some readers may find that difficult. Essentially a love story, the characters are all inhabitants of a boarding house in London. As Hamilton weaves his various plots lines together the role played by the house assumes a greater importance and almost becomes a character within the narrative itself - but not invasively or in a sinister way. So the ending, which I could not predict has a pathos that gradually creeps up on the reader. The characters have their individual foibles and the tension he creates amongst them as the story progresses gives this book a mannered pace. I'm really glad I managed to find it.
While I like Wilder's writing style, which to me seems fairly fresh considering how old it is, this story didn't compel me. I did get through it, but it took a while, as every other book I was reading took precedence. I found it hard to care about rich and powerful (okay, maybe only in their own minds) people in Italy who throw parties and histrionic fits in equal measure. This is Wilder before he matured as a writer, rather full of himself, but giving us a peek of the promise that would produce Our Town and Bridge of San Luis Rey. An interesting picture of high society "doing the European Tour" post-WWI, but not as engaging as it could be.
Holy cow. What an amazing writer.
"Gloom at the Top" A polite New Englander somehow penetrates a top hat society of aristocrats, pale poets and princesses, and Cardinals in Rome, who are really hapless, caught forever in the coils of wealth and privilege, able to escape daily toil, but not vacuity. They are rather ironically known as the Cabala. [*Note: this book has nothing to do with Jewish mysticism. Nothing!] Our narrator describes a series of Cabala members individually and we learn how they are connected.. Having money is tough, you know. You wind up having to keep the hoi polloi away from the gates. But they still might get in. So best bring back kings, divine right, and the Almighty Church. How are you going to do that? Don't let "them" catch wind of it. Well, you might form a secret group of the "best people" (i.e. richest and most conservative) and talk incessantly, so seriously unserious. Whether they have really created such a group is doubtful. The word "cabala" ties them together in our imaginations. THE CABALA was Wilder's first novel. It shows promise, but it shows. He went on to become a most worthy novelist and playwright. It is full of wryly humorous, ironic portraits of this group or cabal of mostly non-Italian socialites while vaguely admiring of their physical surroundings---the palaces, the villas, the accoutrements. I wouldn't call this the best novel I've ever read, but it is a fairly charming period piece from a time that was already over when it was written.
A curious but interesting novel, terribly well written, just as its much more famous successor The Bridge of San Luis Rey. The narrator, ostensibly Wilder's alter ego, is a young American writer who gets to know a circle of socialites in Rome, 'the cabala'. That's about all the plot there is: the narrator is an egoless fly on the wall who describes the socialites' peculiarities. This results in some very well written and interesting portraits of these super rich royalist conservatives, most of them representatives of a world that was ending. As well as to rather abstruse musings on matters of faith that don't really hold my interest.
Underrated classic.
A young American goes to Italy and falls in with a group of powerful but eccentric people. This was Thorton Wilders first novel. The Bridge of San Luis and the 8th day are more accomplished works, but this still has some of those signature Wilder touches that I love. Absurd people do absurd things, and somehow they communicate the most basic and universal truths. Hilarious and moving.
Love his language. Love his way of describing people in just a few phrases so you really understand them. Love the way the narrator is a character without ever revealing too much of himself. Interesting ending. Still thinking about its implications.
Nordic Deliciousness! Need to track down a copy of the U of Minn. reprint.
The most exciting part of this book for me was the language. Eddison really did his homework and got the syntax just right as to be comparative with other Nordic/Scandinavian sagas, without sounding like he was translating (which he wasn't). After having read Njalls Saga, one of the oldest Icelandic sagas, I feel better able to make this judgement. The climax is revealed way before the even occurs, so the suspense lies in how the climax of the novel comes to pass. Also in keeping with the saga tradition, Eddison presents the story without a bias toward one character or another, which I think makes it easier for the reader to come to a moral decision about the story while yet appreciating the complexity of human interaction. A little heavy at times due to language but overall quite wonderful.
I am really digging these turn of the century writers who unearth the amazing Nordic tales- some of the most kick ass stories relayed with the most exquisite composition I have ever read. Styrbiorn the Strong is an amazing character. I encourage anyone with the slightest interest to chew on some of these masters of the tale telling. We need Styrbiorn the Strong in America.
More powerful writing from Eddison.
This was a great book! I thoroughly enjoyed reading about the life of Lincoln leading up to his election and presidency. This is the first book of three in Sandburg's condensed biography of Abraham Lincoln. It was very well written and read like a novel. I love the portrait he paints of Lincoln as a far from perfect person, yet the right person at the right time. It was great to gain a better understanding of Lincoln's background and the events that helped to shape the person he became. It really is a fascinating story to hear. Sandburg does a great job of telling the story, using letters, stories, and quotes of those who knew Lincoln best.It's interesting to think about if a person like Lincoln could get elected today. I believe the probability is not very good, if possible at all. Even those who knew Lincoln best seemed intrigued by him in so many ways. It's almost as if his own friends and partners didn't really know him completely. Lincoln is a mysterious figure and a one-of-a-kind individual who came to the forefront of national politics at just the right time. Life was not easy for him, but he was a man who persevered. It's really as if he did not go pursuing leadership, but he didn't run from it when it came his way.I'm looking forward to the next two books in this trilogy. If this is the condensed version, I can only imagine the detail of the original! This is one I am definitely enjoying and looking forward to continuing!
This volume covers Lincoln's birth to 1854. Sandburg covers his childhood, the death of his mother and his fathers 2nd marriage to Sarah Bush who would be a constant in his life and a very close relationship. According to Carl Sandburg he was to become a successful Lawyer and Politician on the state and national level.No surprises except that during this period of his life he and Mary had successful marriage based on love. You start to understand Lincoln through his losses politically and relationships. His deep depressions and his deep belief that he would suffer a tragic death. Looking forward to read volume II.
Fine
Good information.
A must read for Lincoln and Civil War fans!
Amazing Book! Truly just amazing!
Intriguing story about life as a man who falls for a gay hustler in Berlin in 1926.
I thought I'm on an Iceland binge.... why not continue. Perhaps I wasn't in the right frame of mind, there was little of Iceland in it and mostly unpleasant characters. Not the book for me.
This is not a bad book. Trust me; I've been spoonfed Absolutes and the glorious decay of those who chase after it, as it were some inarguable national trait for Romanians blossoming on the pages of our national literature. After being steeped in that bullshit rhetoric, it is easy for me to see-- this book is quite the opposite.This is an epic of an Icelandic family, taking place mainly on the continent, and making heavy use of the epistolary form (not as boring as it sounds). About the style: it's filled with poetic moments ("a jubilant monk of the world"), and unexpected use of language ("she felt as if her hands were filthy, as if a raw egg had been cracked open over them.") Not least in number are the youthful angst-type comical utterings ("I suffer in the company of men who do not suffer"). That last quote is sheer comedy to me, and as such I often found myself laughing out loud.We should not look at the main character or narrator and the author as interchangeable (see Umberto Eco, Six Walks in the Fictional Woods; otherwise yes, The Great Weaver of Kashmir is about a little boy who never matures, a pedantic prick that at times I found curiously endearing - perhaps because he is so prone to erring, and because he made me laugh. For every outpouring of dialectics that Steinn, the main character, makes up out of thin air, the author counterpoints with some small, ironic remark. By letting Steinn whirl his words around everything from marriage to religion, Laxness precisely debunks everything his character proclaims as ultimate truth. It's the opposite of a Bildungsroman, but still a wonderful occasion for reflection.It's a classic book, with wonderfully weird characters. Although I felt like skipping fifty pages or so of religious rambling, I feel nonetheless like I will want to revisit this book, as it's the type of read that changes with the reader. I am left with the firm conviction that I have to get my hands on more Laxness.
I wrote a long review with quotes that got deleted. Incredibly bizzare book about sums it up. But I cannot resist giving this one quote after all. "It is horrendous to be betrothed to a woman: one can't go for a refreshing walk in the cool of the evening, like the Lord, without having a whole side of female meat hanging on to one. And what's more, a man has to endure this infectious carcass in his bed at night, lying over him, smacking her lips and groaning in her sleep, puffing and snuffling." (p.37) This is said entirely in earnest by the main protagonist. Hard to see why this person got a Nobel prize in literature.... He wrote 60 books and this is one he wrote at 23, but publishing it (for the first time in English!) did him a huge disservice. I am not about to read anything else by him.
Read because I'm going to Iceland in the summer. I might try another of Laxness's books, but mainly because I wasn't the craziest over this one, and I am going to Iceland, after all. This was like a Hardy novel cut in half, only add 200 pages of the protagonist's philosophical and spiritual ramblings. There are some real ferocious parts to the book, but they are much fewer than the philosophical and spiritual nonsense that we use to look into the protagonist. I would recommend this to no one, but I can't say I didn't enjoy reading it for much of the time.
Because I want to go to Iceland.And he understands how an utter ass can be the center of young girl's obsession.
Remembering how to see the light behind the visage of things.......in other words, some people don't seek beauty because they bring it.
4 1/2
I tried, I really did, but I found the earnest search for Absolutes and the national and emotional stereotypes too tiresome.
I pondered whether I in fact could find refuge anywhere on all of God’s green Earth, and whether there was in fact anyone whom I could now allow to look me in the face. And not a single living soul came to mind, not one single creature. [...] There come those times when a man actually has no friend at all! This anguish can cut one so quickly to the heart that no comfort can assuage it, no friendly handshake can shake it off, no smile can soothe it, no mother’s tears can wipe it clean, no lover’s heart can conquer it with forgiveness and affection.*[...] so little can be put in words. Words can never reveal the heart. Words are wise, precise, and strict like teachers, and I’m afraid of them, but the heart is none of these things. I usually stayed quiet when you were around because I felt that words couldn’t say what was in my heart. I want to speak a completely different language than the one contained in words. As if I could put into plain words how I felt in my heart that day in the summer when you left!*And I listened to the rain fall, and memories rained down in my mind. I recalled your words and everything that had happened. Your words are beautiful and terrible. I tremble when you start to speak. Everything that you say and do is beautiful and terrible.*I thank you, my love, for how you have allowed me to torment you. Lovers torment; and are tormented. [...] I’ll torment you, torment you, torment you. I left Iceland last time with the intention of tormenting you; and when I leave again I leave in order to torment you. Because you are all that I love. The love between a man and a woman is the only truth in life. Everything in my life is a lie, Diljá: God and the Devil, Heaven and Hell, everything a lie but you.*And the life of man is an attempt to arm oneself for war against the eternal horror that laughs behind the day.
Well. What an introduction to the author. I may have been as frustrated by some medieval Catholic saint-philosophers back in college as I was by The Great Weaver, but I doubt it. Those authors were easy to write off entirely as tedious, dogmatic, and ignorant. They were simply wrong. But Laxness was so obviously, undeniably brilliant. His words were stark and modern as Hemingway but with an elegance that would make your heart ache. As much as you might want to scream in frustration and throw the book down, you also wanted to turn the page to find the next poetic jewel of philosophic wisdom or penetrating observation.
** I obtained this title due to Goodread's First Reads*** I enjoy a challenge of conquering a book that is considered a hard read. This book and I have been involved in a battle for quite some time, and well the book won. This book has some beautifully written passages and others that cause to me change topic and focus. I feel that I need to do more research and reading of Luxness before I try this title again.
Brilliantly telling line...15 pages of meandering on the soul's torments. Hilarious aside...12 pages on the failings of modern philosophy. Clever description...9 pages on Icelandic weather. And so forth.
Recognizably Laxness though spotty with some overlong digressions, but even in this first work the magic is there throughout.
A few holes in the story (like, why was no one more worried when their houses were broken into?!), but overall another excellent addition to the Dr Thorndyke series.
I think that you either like the intricate detail of a Thorndyke story or you don't. I do. Normally written in the first person by more than one narrator and usually finished by Jervis, Thorndyke's Watsonesque sidekick these stories are written in quite old fashioned English even by standard of the period. The fact that they are doctors and barristers makes them that much more different from the other sleuths of the time. Thoroughly enjoyable.
I like these early 20c novels as I'm there with the my port and a pipe (I don't smoke really.) listening to the tale narrated by Dr Gray of an event some 20yrs previously. He was a newly qualified doctor and taking a trip into the country, lots of walking in this book, when he discovers a body in a pond. As so often in a Thorndyke novel there is a young woman in distress and murder in the air. Gray enlists Thorndyke's help to uncover a mystery of murder, theft and deception.Enjoyable although Thondyke's final account is most intricate and takes some unravelling to understand how the conclusion was reached. Well worth 3.5 stars.
"It is all very involved and confusing. Would you mind telling us exactly what happened?" pleads one of the main characters at the very end of this mystery, after Thorndyke has already explained it once in devastating detail. Of course you want to know what happened too, and this time it's clear[er]. Well, shorter.All those confusing details aside, as far as I could tell these 2 really evil, immoral or amoral bad guys are Americans. While these evil doers pass for each other alive and as corpses, it's hard to see as they went unnoticed as Americans [at least when they were alive!], but they seem to have. So not the best of this generally good series.
Unlike the last one, this one is back to the clueless protagonist needing Thorndyke to explain everything at the end. However, it was much more involving and much more complicated, so the ending explanation probably would have been needed either way! I rather enjoyed this one, it was like reading "The Red Thumb Mark" again. It was a totally new concept to me and got me to remember why I appreciated reading Freeman's mysteries in the first place.
This is the last of the 14 Allan Quatermain novels that H. Rider Haggard wrote, and completes the loosely linked quartet that began with "Allan and the Holy Flower," continued into "The Ivory Child" and then "The Ancient Allan." (A reading of these earlier books is recommended before going into this one.) In this final book, Quatermain again partakes of the taduki drug, as he did in the previous two novels, and gets to see a previous incarnation of his--when he was Wi, the leader of a small tribe during one of the Ice Ages. The story is simply written but zips along at a brisk pace. There are several terrific action set pieces: Wi's fight with Henga, the previous chief of the tribe; the trapping of the wolf pack; the fight with the sabertooth; the battle with the Redbeards; the showdown with the aurochs; and the final cataclysm. The members of the tribe are sharply and sometimes humorously drawn. (Rudyard Kipling helped Haggard with the planning of this novel.) All in all, I really enjoyed this book, and thank Pulp Fictions UK for bringing it back into print. The great bulk of Haggard's work is currently OUT of print, and that is a real shame...
So ends the Quatermain series. Not a bad ending, although the return to the time travel theme, all in order to provide a sort of sermon on reincarnation, did wear thin. Everyone seems exhausted in this novel. Allan, his friend, Good, and the recently deceased Lady Ragnall and Hans. I don't know exactly how Haggard himself died. But, as this is one of his posthumously published works, he must have felt his own mortality at hand. Stretching across the aeons, he must have felt a desire for something greater--as it ran through all his works.Having spent the past two months reading through the Quatermain and Ayesha series, I can say I am surprised. Before reading him, I had dismissed Haggard as being something of a lightweight. He isn't. His writing is not only captivating but full of masterful prose imagery. And he fills his novels with ideas, especially as he seems to be arguing about the merits of religion and the infinite over the entirety of his four decades long writing career. I'm not sure that I will soon, if ever, have time to return to Quatermain. I shall miss his character, however. It was quite a thrill to see the author grow through life with his most memorable subject. And I'm also struck at how Allan changed and grew through the years. At first, I dismissed him as a stock genre protagonist, into which the reader pours his own perspective, to gain catharsis. I was wrong in that early assessment. For even from the second book onward, from Allan Quartermain, that is, readers were given one long flashback from the point of Allan's death. In Allan and the Ice Gods, a terrible title, Haggard almost brings us all the way round. And in the meantime, we have seen Quatermain grow from an impulsive youth, a romantic young man, and a virile adventurer, to a middle aged skeptic, a father who lost his son, and an elderly man making a tally of his life, wondering where it all leads. Quite a journey.
A pretty fast read. Despite the setting, it was alright (I'm not a fan of "pre-historic" yarns with no technology; etc). The main selling point here is that Allan does acid (or a fictional version - tadukic acid diethylamide). When he does, he goes back in time in a lucid dream like state and witnesses life through his ancestor - which can vaguely happen IRL via the administration of psychedelic or entheogenic substances. So it was fairly realistic. Allan smokes it with his friend Good, who appears as his brother in the flashback. I'd like to read more Allan. In fact, I should have read them in order but I didn't, and this was the last one. Can't say I'd recommend, because it's a more "specialized" series (who has the time for all that?) but it was a pleasant read. Anyone could have fun with it.
A journey to the past......a book to remember
An entertaining adventure story.
I do not want to go too much into the storyline for fear of giving away the ending, but there are additional novels involving Allan Allan Quatermain. The review will apply to basically all the novels in the Allan Quatermain series. The interesting part is that after finishing the novel Allan Quatermain you would think the story ends, but it does not. The novels are about three privileged Englishmen who, out of life's boredom, head over to Africa for a little adventure. When reading the books you have to remember the time period in which they written. The novel is full of racist remarks, and is delightfully politically incorrect by today's standards. The novel is thrilling, fun and easy to read, full of adventure and exciting exploits. Like King Solomon's Mine, all the continue with plenty of fighting, romance, and excitement. The novels are like reading a previous version of Indiana Jones books. The novels are very easy to read, and very entertaining. The novels were written and take place over 100 years ago, and gives you a picture of life in Africa during that time. All the novels are worth reading!!! The author Sir Henry Rider Haggard, KBE (22 June 1856 – 14 May 1925) was an English writer of adventure novels set in exotic locations, predominantly Africa, and a founder of the Lost World literary genre. His books were the precursor to the Indiana Jones Novels.
Allan and the Ice-Gods is a different type of Allan Quatermain story. It takes place completely in his home where Allan and a friend smoke a native herb and regress to pre-historic times. A dream sequence reveals the adventures of their pre-historic counterparts. If you are not interested in earlier times or are not an Allan Quartermain fan, skip this read, but if you enjoy books like Jean Auel's Clan of the Cave Bear and its sequels, then you should enjoy this one too. I found it very entertaining.
Exotic .
just realized that I'd never posted about this here. Oops. http://www.oddlyweirdfiction.com/2015...When I picked up Benighted, by J.B. Priestley, I had absolutely no idea what I was about to read. As it turns out, it is one of the most claustrophobic novels I've ever read. In a good way, of course. The back cover blurb says it's a "classic 'old dark house' novel of psychological terror." And indeed, director James Whale in 1932 would adapt Priestley's story and create a movie called "The Old Dark House," which I watched directly after reading this novel. Whale is good at creepiness and atmosphere, but he also plays parts of his adaptation for laughs, so the movie becomes a very mixed bag, sadly without the whole existential feel created by Priestley. Truth be told, the book is SO much better than the film. Indeed, the first several pages into this novel, I was ecstatic to find all of the trappings of the 'old dark house' story: a horrific storm complete with blinding, torrential rain, flooded roads, mudslides and a completely impassable road that brings three people to the literal old dark house. This one happens to be in the Welsh countryside, a perfect setting, a house with some rather strange inhabitants. This wave of ahhhh just settled right over me. There are some moments of mild terror and creepiness that come into this novel, but if you're expecting Whale's "The Old Dark House," forget about it. Much of Benighted had a sort of semi-Gothic, rather than horror-ish feel to it, and it seems to me that if you take the story as a whole, it works very nicely on an allegorical level. The house, with its locked doors, its secrets, its creepiness and its strange inhabitants provides a great setting for understanding how some people work up the resolve to confront their fears, while others choose to stay locked away from the rest of the world. Recommended, for sure.
I bought this book because I enjoyed the James Whale film adaptation, The Old Dark House. Atmospheric and amusing as the film is, the book (naturally) is better.There are no gruesome shocks in the way of modern horror but, if you let your imagination put you in the shoes of the lonely travellers who find themselves stranded in the strange old Femm house, it is really creepy and horripilating.Priestley is able to go inside his characters thoughts and history in much more depth than Whale was able to do, and this is where it steps ahead of the film. Also, the ending is much darker than the Hollywood version (though the introduction to my edition says that Whale shot Priestley's ending, but the studio made him change it).I read Benighted during a week of Autumnal rains and storms: a perfect read, providing you're safely indoors with a hot cup of tea and a biscuit.
Back in 2003, I first saw the original 1932 film THE OLD DARK HOUSE, and I desperately wanted to read the original source material, BENIGHTED. This proved to be quite a problem because the book had been out of print for many years and buying a collector's copy would prove very expensive. So, for the past ten-years, this has been my Holy Grail book. Imagine my excitement when I learned that it had recently been returned to the publication list. Suffice it to say that it proved worth the wait.I had imagined that the meaning of "benighted" was cursed. I learned upon checking through the Kindle that it was defined as "existing in a state of intellectual, moral or social darkness."That is an incredibly apt description of the travelers in the book. In fact, in another incarnation, they might equally be at home on the island in the television series, LOST. They are purposeless and unable to understand why as they come to seek shelter in an old, dark house, indeed. All of the trappings of the murder mansion are there, complete with unsettling residents who make cryptic pronouncements.The story parts company with the cliched versions when a game of Truth allows them to reveal depths of reflection to each other that have remained in the shadows for years. As the mystery of the house comes to a head, the ideal of who they want to be plays into the resolution.Although fans of the classic motion picture will find much to enjoy...in fact, much of the dialogue and most of the situations from the book appeared on screen...the novel provides a number of surprises (including a more realistic ending) and a very welcome fleshing out of the characters. It is easy to see why the book was so popular upon its initial release, and fascinating to realize that it was only the second published work from the author.BENIGHTED was a thoroughly enjoyable reading experience for me and I looked forward to each session with it. It's both short and satisfying, and my latest "must read" recommendation for those looking for a treat in the classic mystery genre of the 30's.
J. B. Priestley was an extremely popular author in the late 1920s and the 1930s, and when someone told me about Benighted, I had to read it. I love stories about old, scary houses, and this book inspired a 1930s film, "The Old Dark House," which gave birth to a whole genre of movies.Benighted is the tale of people stranded by a horrendous storm and flooding in a remote corner of Wales. Their place of refuge is an ancient, dark, creepy old manor house inhabited by four of the strangest people you'd never hope to meet. Little do they realize that it will be a severe test of their mental and physical fortitude just to survive the night.Priestley excelled in his depiction of the ancient house and its inhabitants. There is a decided scare factor when reading about them that I enjoyed. Where the book fell flat for me was in the amount of time it spent inside each of the stranded characters' heads. I can see what Priestley was trying to do: the house had such an effect on these people that their attitudes began to change about what they wanted from their lives, but it was just too much-- especially since I didn't particularly like any of them in the first place. By book's end, there's also a question I'd dearly love to have answered, a question that Priestley really didn't want readers to ask.Benighted gave me a glimpse of Priestley's talent, but it failed to hit the bulls-eye.
I've read a lot of Golden Age crime fiction recently and thought I'd give this one a go, JBP having the extra attraction of being a 'real writer'.I wasn't impressed. The writing is slow and descriptive, unsuitable for the type of story it was trying to tell. I'm well-used to the writing style of the period but this story took things to a new level, interrupting what could have been exciting, rollicking scenes to examine the inner world of the protagonists. Really takes you out of the story. This is THE cardinal sin for thriller writers IMHO.On the positive side, the writing is more than accomplished, the characters were memorable and, given the time and distance between us, believable. But that's about it.I had another of Priestley's books, The Magicians, lined up as my next read but I think I'll give that a miss now.
"This is yet another book which I have spent my precious reading time on this year which features a Party of Roving Twits. You probably know the kind, even if you haven't read any of the abominable thrillers of the '20s and '30s which feature the archetype (and which I keep reading because I'm an idiot with high hopes). Everyone who isn't a pretentious asshat is foppish and disengaged to the point of inducing aneurysm. I tried to find conversations between the protagonists that were both interesting and relevant, and was completely without luck. I hate books where all the women do is scream and all the men do is make faux-Wilde pithy observations on everything. Especially when both insist on using such unbearably Caucasian similes as 'strange as a mandarin.'"Full review at Adam Mudman's A-List: http://mudmansalist.blogspot.com/2017...
A beautifully written and charmingly amusing, and perhaps definitive, 'old dark house' tale, with viewpoint chapters allowing for a Freudian depth of character which underpins the post-war allegory and social comment which was Priestley's intent, accentuated by the climax, which avoids the somewhat clumsier happy ending of the film.
The Old Dark House is one novel any horror literature fan should take the time to read. It's not that long and takes place in the course of one evening. Written by J.P. Priestly in 1927, it was published in the United States as The Old Dark House, but originally as Benighted (the title you can find it at through Valancourt Books). It was filmed as The Old Dark House in 1932 and can be purchased on Blu-Ray.Philip Waverton, his wife Margaret and their friend Roger Penderel are traveling across Wales in by car when they are beset by a thunderstorm. As the roads become impassable, their spot a house in the hillside and decide to make for it when a landslide buries the roads . They're greeted at the door by a huge, mute butler, whom we soon learn is named Morgan. Inside the house, which turns out to be a 16th century manor, they are greeted by two of the other inhabitants of it: Horace Femm and his sister Rebecca. They soon learn there is another member of the family, Sir Roderick Femm, who is too ill to leave his room. Later that evening, Sir William Porterhouse and his chorus girlfriend Gladys make an appearance, as they too are seeking shelter from the storm.As the night drags on, strange things begin to happen. Morgan the butler starts drinking in the kitchen and becomes a very mean drunk. Rebecca Femm begins preaching hell-fire and damnation to anyone who bothers to listen, Horace Femm reveals he's wanted by the police and the travelers reveal interesting bits about their own backgrounds. Eventually the power fails and the Old Dark House is lit by candle lights and lamps. Then things become very strange.The book is written in a very continental style. Long expository sentences and observations very typical of literature of this period. But the conversations are riveting in what you learn about the characters. At one point someone suggests they play Truth (as in Truth or Dare). Horace Femm mocking comments "Oh, its' a game now. About time". Sir Porterhouse who makes his stage entrance as a glad-handling money bags soon reveals he's not to the manor born. And Penderel, a veteran, is still suffering from seeing his comrades mowed down in WWI.Here's a good example of how Priestly manages to take a character who might be a boob in any other story and give him depth: ‘Unless you’re very lucky,’ he began, ‘you only make money by wanting to make it, wanting hard all the time, not bothering about a lot of other things. And there’s usually got to be something to start you off, to give you the first sharp kick. After you’ve got really started, brought off a few deals and begun to live in the atmosphere of big money, the game gets hold of you and you don’t want any inducement to go on playing—d’you follow me? It’s the first push that’s so hard, when you’re still going round with your cap in your hand. It’s my experience there’s always something keeps a man going through that, puts an edge on him and starts him cutting, and it may be some quite little thing. A man I knew, a Lancashire man too, was an easy-going youngster, thought more about cricket than his business, until one day, having to see the head of a firm, he was kept waiting two hours, sitting there in the general office with the clerks cocking an eye at him every ten minutes. He’s told me this himself. “All right,” he said to himself, “I’ll show you.” He walked out when the two hours were up, and that turned him, gave him an edge. He did show ’em, too. I don’t say, of course, that every man who says something like that to himself brings it off, but some do. Well, it was the same with me.'Of course, you can't discuss the book without mentioning the movie version which came out a few years later. An early talkie, it suffers a bit from sound recording and the problems of preservation. It was only through the efforts of filmmaker Curtis Harrington that a decent copy was found. Following the heels of director James Whales' Frankenstein it was the ignored by the public, who didn't seem to understand the mix of horror and comedy. But the movie is an excellent adaptation of the book with whole dialogue being taken from the original source. Although the upbeat "cold light of day" ending is absent in the book, I still highly recommend the film version. I've watched it many times. When I read the book I can't help but hearing Ernest Thesiger's voice every time Horace Femm speaks.I must give a shout-out to Pretty Sinister Books for bringing this brilliant classic to my attention. Also to Valancourt Books who made an electronic version available.
Although little read today, J.B. Priestley was one of the most prolific and popular British literary figures of the 20th century. He began to make his mark as a theater critic before publishing his first two novels in 1927. One of those was Benighted, his entry into the then popular genre of the Old Dark House horror story. The novel was retitled The Old Dark House for U.S. publication and filmed under that name by James Whale in 1932.In an Old Dark House story, a group of mismatched characters, friends or strangers, finds themselves stranded in a large, spooky structure, usually during a storm. Terrifying and possibly supernatural events occur. The genre is still with us, although it has migrated mostly to the movies. Read through the sentence summaries of the Chiller Channel film lineup on any weekend and half of them will be variations on this motif. It underlies a film like Alien, and recently reached its postmodern apotheosis with A Cabin in the Woods.The young Priestley created a classic setup. Three people are trapped in the wildest reaches of Wales during a storm that is literally bringing down a mountainside. There is a young couple whose marriage is in crisis. Their friend is a returning WWI veteran who we today would diagnose with PTSD. (Priestly himself suffered both a shrapnel wound and a gas attack before being declared unfit for active service in 1918.) They find refuge in a massive stone house inhabited by the creepiest cast of characters the budding dramatist could dream up: a gigantic, brutish servant (mute); an aging, fearful old man; his obese, religious fanatic sister; a dying invalid; and, a madman in a locked room. They are soon joined by other refuges of the storm: a blustering industrialist and a London chorus girl. I don’t know what other, popular ODH novels may have been like, but I doubt that many could have been as psychologically acute as Preistley’s. He tells each chapter from a different character’s perspective, a modernist technique that provides depth to the lurid developments and allows the author to stage manage the suspense. The novel ages well. It’s an entertaining melodrama, something of a hoot, filled with characters who become both increasingly interesting and sympathetic. Read the novel, watch the movie. Both are classics of the genre.
A quick read, and a very pleasant surprise! At turns funny, suspenseful, poignant and frightening, BENIGHTED kept me riveted until I reached the last page. Priestley's insight into the psyches of his characters is profound, and at times I marveled that this had been written in the 20s, some of the psychology seemed so modern, and yet so timeless simultaneously. So many of the characters' astute observations could be applied to the world as it is now nearly 90 years later. I was left with a feeling of sadness when it ended, and only wished the best for the characters, who I grew to know and like very much in a matter of only 152 pages. I also greatly enjoyed Priestly's brand of dry British humour. His depiction of Rebecca Femm was particularly delightful! Thanks to Valancourt Books for re-issuing this and bringing it to my attention. Now I must seek out the 1932 Universal film THE OLD DARK HOUSE, that was based on this book, as well as more books by J.B. Priestly!
My early review of this was lame, and this one ain't like to get much lamer, but I felt I should say a little something about it. In the time since I first read this book, it was acquired for reissue by the fine folks at Valancourt Books, who were kind enough to ask me to do the introduction for it, which I was more than happy to do. That's the edition that this review should be linking to now, and it's the edition that I recommend you pick up, and I do recommend picking it up, because, besides being the book that The Old Dark House was adapted from, it's also amazing on its own merits, and has a surprising edge of what could almost be considered cosmic horror, in spite of not containing any actual supernatural or speculative elements.And of course there's an introduction by me, in which I'm hopefully at least mildly more coherent than I am in this review, and in which I talk at length about things like the book's connection to the movie, which is, after all, one of my favorites of all time. I'm proud as punch to have this be the first book I was ever asked to write an introduction for, and I really couldn't think of a better one.
Good read. A real "old dark house" thriller. In fact "The Old Dark House" was the title used in the 1932 flick starring Melvyn Douglas, Ernest Thesiger and Boris Karloff. Hard book to find when I read it several years ago, but I see it's been published again and is available on Amazon. Standard genre plot of travelers being stranded in a downpour and seeking shelter in a Munsters TV episode type mansion. Naturally the house is full of creepy occupants and a maniacal deformed butler. Well worth reading if you're a horror or gothic fan. And I heartily recommend (being an avid Karloff fan} seeing the movie.
BENIGHTED, by J.B. Priestly, is a novel that was originally published in 1927, re-issued by Valancourt Books in 2013, and reprinted in 2018. This version includes an introduction by Orrin Grey. There is a film based on this novel entitled The Old Dark House, that was released by Universal Pictures in 1932--at the height of the "dark house" phase in literature and film.  ". . . It's our flesh . . . the jellied stuff that rots so easily, which quivers and creeps, goes goose with fright; but our bones stand up and don't give a damn . . . "The story begins in the classic fashion with a group of people caught out in a sudden storm. The severity is such that sudden landslides begin to cover and wash away parts of the road they are traveling. Here we have Philip and his wife, Margaret Waverton, and friend, Roger Penderel.  ". . . Mrs. Waverton, one of those pale and clear and terrifically educated women who knew everything and knew nothing, never actually breaking through into the real world . . . "They spot some lights coming from an ancient looking, large edifice, and it is determined that they will need to ask for shelter there, despite the unsettling feeling they all have.  ". . . it was in the nature of things to go wrong . . . "Priestly sets this atmosphere with the utmost precision. Between the raging elements outdoors, and the unknown, yet somehow sinister, facade of the building in front of them, that is quickly arrived at. The looming structure conjures up all kinds of horrific images in the travelers, even before they get near it.". . . Suppose the people inside were dead, all stretched out with the lights quietly burning above them . . ."While the atmosphere is absolutely essential to this novel, so too are the personalities of the characters. You have your "everyday" people (the travelers), and the mysterious residents--the Femm family--in the gothic mansion. Their quirks, lack of social graces that most adhere to, and general "oddness" immediately have our visitors wondering if perhaps they might have been better off chancing the water-washed roads, instead.  ". . . Perhaps this is the fire, and we're merely taking the bags out of the frying-pan . . . "Eventually, the reluctantly-admitted trio finds themselves confronted by yet another couple seeking shelter from the storm, and it is at this junction that the real mysteries of the house begin to be revealed. Through cryptic comments, the jumpy, inhospitable hosts, and noises that do not come from the raging storm, the characters realize that there are more things to be frightened of "in" their supposed sanctuary . . .   ". . . ordinary life's bad enough, but it's a prince to the stuff we spin out of our rotten unconsciousnesses every night . . . "When you consider the year this book was first released, you can appreciate just how well it has stood the test of time. In between bought of misgiving and and uncertain terror, we have conversations and introspection on the society and behaviors of people, in general. Even the comic relief throughout the novel are about things we can still relate to.  ". . . People wonder what's the matter with the world these days . . . They forget that all the best fellows, the men who'd be in their prime now, . . . are dead . . ."Overall, this is an excellent example of a Gothic "Dark House" story. The atmosphere, in my opinion, is flawlessly set, as is the tension that escalates throughout the entirety of the novel. The banter between the characters has moments of humor interspersed between the apprehension and terror of their forced-upon situation, as it unfolds. Another great novel brought back to the attention of readers, through it's new publication by Valancourt Books. Highly recommended.
This old book surprisingly does little to date itself and has great messages, in addition to being quite entertaining. it is easy reading, but has quite a bit of depth. There is nothing supernatural going on, just an evil/disturbed family in a old house, with 5 unwelcome guests seeking shelter from a terrible storm, flooding, and landslides. If I were you, I'd read the book first, then rent/buy the movie with Boris Karloff. Movie/book spoiler: (view spoiler)[The movie has a Hollywood ending, and is funny at times because some of it is ridiculous Hollywood glamour which is out of place with the setting, but was typical for movies of that time. The book doesn't have a Hollywood feel, nor the same ending as the movie. Otherwise, the movie follows the book nearly word-for-word. (hide spoiler)]
This is the third book by Priestley I have read- the others being the novel 'the magicians' and the collection of short stories 'the other place'. I have never been disappointed by his writing- his style, use of language, plotting and characterization are all excellent.This short novel is no exception. I couldn't keep from reading it- it was compulsively well written. It is an early novel by Priestley, and a 'old dark house' tale: a group of travellers take shelter in a mysterious house, possessed of eccentric inhabitants. I won't tell much more- but I can see why the ending was changed for the film version!One of the best things about Priestley is that he seems to hold a mirror up to (certainly my) life, allowing you to see things which you might have missed. This novel has several underlinings, unusual for me in a novel, because of this. Highly recommended.
The writing gets four stars with a fifth for such an excellent premise. The creepy old house, the nutball family, the menacing, dumb brute of a butler. The stranded travelers stopping for the night.. I love the setup so much.The writing starts off light and breezy, and is thoroughly enjoyable, but the pace and quality slackens off in places, particularly (curiously) in scenes with two of the women by themselves. At a couple of places, the reading was laborious, and I'm disappointed that the narrative didn't grip me completely the whole night through.
Great readThis book is easy to understand & answered a lot of unanswered questions I had after reading the kjv bible.
This is truly one of the forgotten books of EDEN. The life of Adam and Eve after they were expelled from Eden. Very nice and good. Even my christian friends doesn't know about these books.
A really great (and super short!) read. Tells the story of Adam and Eve after they've been expelled from the Garden and why Satan messes with them. Very worthwhile to be preceded or followed by Paradise Lost and the Bible's Genesis.
This book is one I'll probably buy at some point, and read to my kids as preparation for their own missions. The comments by various people in this book illustrate things I always wondered about as a teen but never heard straight-forward enough answers to, to show what great work teenagers can do, without always having to be waiting and just preparing to be an adult. This book almost seems to show me that being a missionary is the work of very young people. Anyway, I also have distant cousins who lived in the same years, and did manage to get to China to be Protestant missionaries, and their kids were born there and grew up with this life. So it was also nice to read this book to understand them. And since in the last month and a half, I've really been working on my willingness to submit to God's plan for my life, since health challenges have suddenly come upon me when I thought I was supposed to be doing more active work, this book gave me more reflection too on how we should face new twists on our own plans. I hope I'm turning into a Bill Borden, and that if I were to die in one year from now, when I'm the age he was, I'd have done as appropriate work with my life as he did.
Wow! What an amazing biography! I understand this book is out of print. I picked it up in my church library. William Borden was an unknown to me before reading it. It profoundly moved me! What a life! He was described as "a man with the frame of an athlete, the mind of a scholar, the grasp of a theologian as regards God’s truth, and the heart of a little child, full of faith and love.” Used of God in a mighty way. Hands down, the most moving book I've read in years. Since picking it up a week or so, I've shared exerpts with a multitude of people. The highest recommendation!
Another Christian biography that is an outstanding story of an outstanding man. Unfortunately as with George Mueller, this book was not well written. In spite of that, working through it had value is seeing the result of his life, though presented very one-sided in this book. He was a very wealthy aristocrat who lived for ministry among the poor and lost, and is a worthy example for any era.
Another great young man of faith in Jesus.
Borden of Yale tells the story of a young man, William Borden who lived at the turn of the 20th century with a heart for God. The book is truly inspiring as it depicts William's life from childhood to college to seminary school then to the short time beyond. While William died at age 25, he impacted the world in such a way nobody could say he left anything unfinished. As a current college student William's story was so inspiring and impacted me in more ways than I expected. There are so many lessons to learn from him and his life - I fully recommend this book to anyone who is searching to follow God better. It would make an especially good gift/read for students. The only reason I gave the book 4/5 stars was the fact that the author did not share any faults of William, making him a little un-relatable to me. I'm not sure if maybe it was because he died so young and gave his life so fully to God that people did not want to share of weaknesses or struggles or because he didn't share those kinds of things with others... But you would think as a child he would do something stupid! Regardless, it's an awesome book and an inspiring story about a young man after God's own heart.
The work traces a remarkable transformation from a lovesick wretch to a strong, courageous woman of intellect and principle.
Personal Response:This short story was very eye opening to me. It gave me a little taste of how hard being in a war might be. The war had a large emotional toll on some of the characters. Although this wasn’t my favorite story, I still enjoyed it. The story included a lot of imagery about the city of Milan and I think that helped the reader get drawn in. I definitely wasn’t expecting to read anything about a war, but it was pretty good overall. Plot:During one of the world’s largest wars, it was hard to live a normal life. Being injured definitely didn’t help this cause at all. Ernest had to go to the hospital everyday to get stretched out by machines along with many of his friends. Every once in awhile, their sergeant had to come in to the hospital as well. One day, Ernest was talking to one of his friends about how he wanted to start a family when he got home to America. HIs sergeant was very upset about this and told him to never make anyone rely on him like that. Everyone was in shock about his strange reaction. That was until he came back and apologized and explained that his wife had just passed away. All of the soldiers were suddenly very understanding of their sergeant and sent him their condolences. Recommendation:I would recommend this short story to boys or girls who are older than 15. This story could appeal to either gender as it has a part about war and a part about emotions. I think the reader should be at least 15 years old because this story is a bit hard to comprehend, which may be hard for younger children.
A fairly short text but moving in many ways and curious in it's descriptions - original to it's very bones.
This is one of my favorite short stories. So sparse, so true to life. Sometimes the first line just pops into my head.
Just a glimpse at more loss and injury and the pains of war, but so well written.
Another good short story by Christie.
Extremely boring!
Ruthless! Good story. One of my favourites!!
Wow. Thought-provoking.
This is my first GLH, though I tried and didn't finish another one that had a very spoiled rich girl for heroine. This heroine grew up rich, but when the book opens her father has died, leaving the family with crushing debt that will change their lives drastically. At first it read like a George MacDonald romance - which made me quite happy as I love his old romance novels. Then it became more French farce, the doorbell ringing to admit another outrageous person bringing more problems to the beleaguered family, and I giggled through that part. Finally it settled into a more typical old-fashioned romance, with the hero and heroine falling in love through letters and postcards, since they were on different continents. Ultimately it was a delightful story of a spunky young girl who made the best of her life and ended up with her HEA. I will read another by Hill some times.
Not one of Hill's best. As others have noted, she throws everything she can think of at the heroine, while giving only a few hints of possible solutions, before abruptly tying up a bunch of threads into a pretty unbelievable happy ending that requires a pure deus ex machina for one of the problems and nearly that for two more. I don't mind Hill's Happily Ever After trope, and I'll shrug off any number of unlikely happenings to get there, but this one is just ridiculous.I was also more irritated by Hill's obsession with social status in this one; sometimes she gets past that whole thing and presents people of a "lower social class" as having unexpected quality and proving themselves human beings worthy of respect, but in this one social class trumps any possibility of change or growth.I still found things to enjoy in it. At one point the heroine is being pressured by her fiance, and he's using the whole "the husband gets to dictate to the wife" line of thinking, which she rejects by saying, "Milton, you have no authority over me. I must do what I think is right. It is my own conscience that I must follow, and if you really love me you will not hurt me by" insisting she ignore it. I suspect Hill always believed that the best marriage is one where the husband and wife are of like minds, and she'd probably never bought into the argument that Christian women should abandon their beliefs in order to "submit" to their husband. But I also believe that her own experience with her second marriage convinced her that enough people believe in such foolishness that she needed to directly challenge that idea, and IMHO she does a good job of challenging it.Another lesson that Hill had to learn in her own life, and tries to pass on, is that "she knew herself to be not really bound by what anyone else, even of her own family, did. She was herself, and accountable for her own character." There's some good stuff here, and with some rewriting it could have been a good book, but Hill did not give it the attention it needed and her editor let it slide.
So bad, it's funny.
Everything that can go wrong does, and then it all magically wraps up in about three pages, with a few major plot holes still gaping.
My favorite GLH bookI have always loved her books about families pulling together in hardship. This one takes the cake with well developed characterizations. Although following a tried and true theme, there are differences in outcome that are unique in this one. Highly recommend.
Going through pages, I completely relate it with current on-going situation in India.
My second Prem Chand read after Godan. I am in love with his simple and impactful writings. It's amazing how he, with the utmost ease, explains each and every aspect of Indian society from all angles through various characters. His characters make you traverse through each and every dimension of the plagues of our erstwhile Bharat (widow marriage in this case). The thing that stands out to me in thia story is how the protagonist takes along the society one step ahead with his belief in doing what is just not what is just propogated for centuries.I would give it a 4.5/5.
its good.......
This book is a real oddity, and one well worth the read. A searing polemic indicting the death penalty in England (which was primarily by hanging, but he also touches on other methods of execution), in the guise of a defense of the executioner. Duff's style makes me think of a mid-20th century British version of Stephen Colbert. The NYRB rerelease will primarily be preaching to the choir, but as the book's description states, no matter what your views on capital punishment, you cannot come away from this book without realizing that no matter what else capital punishment is, "it is certainly killing."
Old-fashioned stories. I liked them
Mr. Weston's Good Wine is an extraordinary novel, combining the moral generosity of G.K. Chesterton, the fearless theology of Charles Williams, the blasé acknowledgement of the supernatural of Mikhail Bulgakov and the fleeting, heart-rending touch of the numinous found in the novels of Ray Bradbury. Finding this novel after wandering into a second-hand bookshop in York was like walking down an unfamiliar street at dusk, stooping to pick up a silver object in the hope it might be a coin and then discovering one of the world's rarest orchids growing between the paving stone. The style is earthy and transcendent, the story powerful and frightening. A wine-seller, Mr. Weston, arrives with his assistant Michael at the village of Folly-Down, a small English village populated by an atheist vicar, his teenage daughter, in love with an angel she once saw painted on an inn signboard, an allegedly promiscuous gravedigger, a mystical young man who wanders the fields converting bulls and geese to Christianity and a variety of other colourful and often very unpleasant rural eccentrics. Mr. Weston is here to sell them wine, and so begins a night of judgement and revelation for Folly Down. Powys quickly dispenses with ambiguity as to Mr. Weston's identity. Though apparently an unremarkable-looking elderly wine salesman, he casually raises a child from the dead, stops time at will and keeps a chained demon in the boot of his car. He also carefully asks if an inn he passes has a stable. Mr. Weston is God (the Christian one), but a rather iconoclastic portrait of that deity. He doesn't like to be reminded of the cross, and claims he has never bothered to enter a church, preferring to be "In a condemned cell, in a brothel, in the kennels of a vast city, [where] our wine is drunk to the dregs... in church they merely sip." His wine is rich with allegory, but perhaps not the most obvious kind. What follows is a story carnal and irreverent, often horrifying and sometimes beautiful. Like many truly memorable books, Mr. Weston's Good Wine is often hard to read. Though the writing style is laconic and sharp-witted, the subject matter is gruelling: it's definitely an adult novel, being full of sexuality, violence and sexual violence. A young woman drowns herself to avoid the disgrace of becoming an unmarried mother and two farmer's sons attempt to rape a servant girl, encouraged by an elderly woman who finds it hilarious. But this material is not gratuitous. Though depressing to read, these scenes are imbued with rage at rape culture and the irrational sexual double standards that rewarded men for the same behaviour that resulted in punishment and ostracisation for women. Mr Weston's Good Wine is a dark book, but never a bleak one. Powys takes a long, judging look at humans and at their creator, and airs out questions which have remained unanswered since the days of Job. But it perhaps the very unflinching nastiness of some of the earlier material that makes the concluding chapters so beautiful: only the darkest night sky allows the stars to shine.
Meh--I learned about this book from one of John Gray's wonderful books, and so I stuck to it even when the first 140 pages out of the 239 pages are pretty dull—in fact, dull enough to put you to quarter (not full! or even half!) asleep. Narratively, it's structured so clumsily (to me at least) that I question the importance and necessity of the first 4 chapters that take place in Maidenbridge (which is not where the story takes place) as well as the LONG exposition that is the conversation between Mr. Weston and his companion, Michael that 1) makes unnecessarily overt hints at Mr. Weston's real nature (God) and introduces each and every character of Folly Down. And though characterization is quite good and funny, it's not good enough to carry the story on its own, and I really had a hard time getting into the story. That's partly because there's no real protagonist (apart from Mr. Weston, but then he's just one of the characters imo) and the story focuses on a lot of characters one by one without much narrative thrust so the effect is, well, you really don't care much about any of the characters (though I did like poor Luke Bird and Reverend Grove by the end). The story REALLY begins when Mr. Weston enters the inn on page 112 (Chapter 20), and it picks up a little bit and plateaus for a while and sort of ends with a whimper.The conceit of the book is really interesting—a(n anti-) Christian allegory that is also a farce—but the execution at the story level wasn't there for me at all (though I have to admit that at the sentence and paragraph levels, he is a deceptively simple writer who is really good at quick and dirty characterization).Overall, meh.
I love 19th century fiction, and this was in the general style, but oh my, there the similarity ended. Plodding stodgy prose with little or no real character building. Possibly one of the most tedious books I have ever given up on.
This is a remarkable book; I wasn’t expecting a great deal from it, but despite my low expectations I was impressed. I must admit I knew little of Theodore Powys, apart from the fact that he was John Cowper Powys’s brother. He was the son of a clergyman, born in 1875. He tried and failed at farming and eventually settled to writing in rural Dorset. He was a voracious reader and was influenced by the Bible, Bunyan, Hardy, Nietzsche and Freud amongst others. There are spoilers ahead; inevitable I'm afraid to review this book adequately. The book is allegorical and on the surface seems to be a Christian allegory, but any story that treats Christianity as myth has much more going on. The story is a simple one, set in one evening in the village of Folly Down in Dorset. It is uncomfortable and makes one uneasy. It has been compared to the film “A Wonderful Life”, the rural characters are brilliantly drawn and remind one of Hardy, there is a strong vein running through it which is pure Hammer House of Horror, Nietzsche’s influence stands out a mile. Mr Weston is a wine merchant who drives a Ford van, travelling round to sell his wares with his assistant Michael. Mr Weston is actually the creator of the world, God, and his assistant is an angel. Mr Weston sells two wines; the light, sweet, white wine of love and the dark, rich red wine of death. Mr Weston seems very fond of the villagers of Folly Down, but he envies them mortality; God wishes that he could die and says that he will drink his own wine of death one day.The villagers are a set of very colourful characters; the vicar Revd Nicholas Grobe, does not believe in God since the death of his wife in childbirth, his daughter Tamar is an innocent who wishes nothing more than to be loved by an angel; preferably the one in blue trousers on the sign of the local pub. Mrs Vosper is probably one of the nastiest creations in literature. Together with Squire Mumby’s two sons, Martin and John, she plots the downfall of virtuous young women. She befriends young women from the village and lures them to the old oak at night, where Martin and John rape them whilst Mrs Vosper watches on. This has happened to the three Kiddle sisters. The eldest Ada became pregnant and killed herself by throwing herself into the village pond (at Mrs Vosper’s suggestion). Jenny Bunce is the landlord of the pubs daughter, who is young and innocent and next on Mrs Vosper’s list. Luke Bird is a young man who believes he is called to preach the gospel and believing men to have no soul, he preaches to animals. Mr Grunter is the gravedigger and general handyman at the church; Mrs Vosper blames him for deflowering the women, a charge he doesn’t deny as he quite likes the notoriety. There are various other worthies in the local pub. Time stops at 7pm when Mr Weston arrives. There is sensuality in the writing; Powys is very open about sex as he is about the place of women and relations between the sexes; in society and in Christianity. A sort of justice is meted out. Luke Bird discovers love and sex with Jenny Bunce (after she is saved from the Mumby’s and Mrs Vosper) and so stops preaching. Revd Grobe drinks the heavy wine of death and is at peace. Tamar finds her angel (Michael) and consummates her love and in doing so dies. Mrs Vosper’s demise is chilling (I saw a rather bad horror movie called Drag Me to Hell recently and the very last scene of that film was brought to mind when Mrs Vosper is judged. The remaining Kiddle sisters suddenly find the Mumby brothers are entirely at their beck and call and they marry them. As for Ada Kiddle; Mr Grunter is instructed to dig her up. He speaks to her remains;“Ada,” he said, stepping to the coffin again, “’tain’t I that have moulded ‘ee, ‘tain’t I that have rotted thee’s merry ways wi’ wormy clay. I bain’t to be talked of no more.”God is on trial here; and is found guilty, as is much of the panoply of religion and its patriarchalism. The messages here are complex and there is lots of symbolism. At the end of the book Mr Weston sits in his van and asks Michael to put a match into the petrol tank. Does God die; you decide. Clearly Powys does not believe in immortality and here wrestles with myth, spirituality, philosophy and theology and comes up with as many questions as answers.Leavis, the doyen of literary critics approved of Powys and he has been called England’s Tolstoy. On this reading I will look out more of his work. This is an excellent and thought provoking novel.
I was surprised to find out while reading that this is a Christian allegory book. In the same league as The Chronicles of Narnia or the The Lord of the Rings (5 stars). It's just that this is not set in a magical world where there are elves, warriors, wizards, etc. Rather, the setting is in England in 1923. The story opens with Mr. Weston getting off from his delivery vehicle containing wine. There are children on the street and they are thinking of stealing some bottles. There is also Miss Gipps who is dreaming of getting married someday. Then we also meet Michael, the assistant of Mr. Weston. When he (Mr. Weston) enters the nearby bar, he meets several characters whose lives unfold one-by-one to us like giving us a glimpse of various types of people: good, bad and in-between. So, where is the allegory? Here it is: later in the story is it revealed that Mr. Weston is actually (view spoiler)[God (hide spoiler)] himself and the two types of wine he is selling is the light wine of love and the dark wine of death. that makes me think that Mr. Weston (view spoiler)[or God himself (hide spoiler)] is making us decide, using our own freewill, what kind of life we want.There are just too many characters and there was a part in my reading when I felt bored because I felt I no longer care who are some of them. The English is surprisingly, easy to understand akin to the language of Charles Dickens. T. F. Powys (1875-1953) was a British novelist and a son of a vicar so maybe that explains the heavy use of religious allegory. What is surprising, though, is Powys' openness to sex that makes this book, in my opinion, still quite unconventional. Or maybe Powys' just thought that he was showing what was the practice in English during the 20's. Were they open to sex then? I have no idea so I checked Wiki and it says that among the recent writers that he admired were Thomas Hardy, Sigmund Freud, and Friedrich Nietzsche. So maybe, he got the sex part from Freud and his being unconventional from Nietzsche. According to Wiki, this modernist book is an example of allegorical fictional meditation. I am not sure what that means but it is nice to know that there is also this sub-genre and this book is an example of it.
This is the type of novel with which one might have a love/hate relationship. It is an unconventional story framed within an unusual structure with striking, bold imagery. It also deals with morality in a manner that I have never before found in literature.I found Mr. Weston's Good Wine a little difficult to get started. It was clear (I thought) what the obvious allusions were, but I could not quite figure out where Powys was leading me as a reader. I struggled to keep going and eventually put the book down after getting nearly halfway through. It sat for a few months, but then I got a copy of Powys' collection entitled Fables. That collection helped me better understand that Powys was not trying to express his beliefs so much as investigate the nature of life in all things. All things. Powys seemed to want to investigate how evil and benevolence coexist but one is not necessarily any better than the other. Interesting.I picked up Mr. Weston's Good Wine again and finished it quickly. It appears that I stopped reading right when a consistent story begins in Folly Down, the city where the rest of the action takes place. Up to that point, the narrative seems to vacillate between locations and characters.Powys' prose is deceptively simple—as the best writers can do. His use of local color by emulating dialect and use of particular names is very well done. Use of dialect is obvious but it does not seem as though Powys is trying to show off how he can write; the purpose is to show distinctions between characters and reveal layers of character development that might be missed with a consistent narrative voice. Action and voice are especially strong: The reader is in the moment. Interestingly, Powys holds back just as much as he provides. We think we know what happens and what characters represent, but Powys rarely provides explicit explanations. I think of Hawthorne, the master of ambiguity, when I read Mr. Weston's Good Wine.On the other hand, elements of setting and character are sometimes inconsistent and confusing. The way characters in Folly Down manage to move about in what should be total darkness is never fully explained, nor is the ability to hear characters when they should not be heard or things perceived when it seems impossible.Mr. Weston's Good Wine is one of the most unique and engaging novels I have read in a long time. There are characters to like, admire, pity, and despise. The location(s) are very specific to eastern England, but the tales of rustics and their backward (or forward-thinking) ways can apply nearly any locale. Powys' use of allusion is often quite obvious, but what he intends by those allusions is often left to readers to interpret in nicely clever manners.If you decide to read Mr. Weston's Good Wine, I strongly recommend you keep going until you are well into the setting at Folly Down. It is a very engaging, sometimes disturbing novel that is completely engrossing and highly entertaining.
A recently rediscovered novel from the 1920s that is very much of its time (although, at a pinch, it could be considered an early example of magic realism). In parts, it reads like the kind of bawdy 'country matters' stories written by H.E.Bates and A.E.Coppard. Mr Weston arrives in the small Dorset town of Folly Down to sell the inhabitants his good wine. Soon after he arrives, the clocks stop and it is eternal evening. Young women are being ravished and made pregnant. Is the culprit the church clerk, Mr Grunter or is it God?The novel is a religious allegory but whether it's inspired by belief or dis belief in God is open to question. This novel is an interesting oddity unlike most other things I've read. Warning: the West Country dialect takes some decoding and getting used to.
Hard going in parts esp. the dialect sections.
The penultimate volume of Sigrid Undset's Master of Hestviken tetralogy, In the Wilderness finds Olav Audunsson mourning the death of Ingunn, his wife of about 20 years. In her absence, all ties he has to the world, to Hestviken (his family estate), to his daughter Cecilia, and to Eirik, the bastard son he has raised as his own, seem faint and weak. When two merchants visit him to make a business proposal, Olav finds himself on a voyage to England, where he experiences temptation, and extraordinary revelations of his own inner struggles and the state of his spirit. Olav has a chance at redemption, but he rejects it out of pride, and when he returns home again his life has taken on a semblance of normalcy despite the emptiness he feels toward everything. Olav adopts a young girl named Bothild Asgeirsdatter, who befriends his daughter Cecilia and adds a little light to his life, just before the countryside erupts into chaos when a Swedish lord invades Norway. This is probably the shortest of all the books in this series, and most of the story goes by fairly quickly, though there are a few slow moments. As is true of all of Undset's works, the book richly evokes its time, place and characters; the landscape and culture of medieval Norway come to vivid life under her pen.
The series slows wih each novelIn the Wilderness is the fourth in a four novel series following an eight year old boy named Olav through his coming of age, unhappy marriage to a chronically ill wife, and now, well into his forties, through a war between his native Norway and Denmark. In between are his reflections on a moral issue he wrestles with.The translation was done in about 1930 and uses many archaic words and phrases, and all are in very archaic English. Also, as I read more, I find these novels to be light on plot and therefore overly long. They are like Wagner's Ring Cycle. What took Wagner four operas and about seventeen hours to tell, Verdi or Puccini could probably have cut down to one slightly longer than normal opera of about three hours. I will only be reading the last book to see how Sigrid Undset leaves Olav.
You have to read all four books! I ended up reading this one last only because I had to wait for it ordered. Wow. They are all amazing. Can't believe a writer from the 1920's could have handwritten and published this much material.
This third volume of Sigrid Undset's THE MASTER OF HESTVIKEN enhances the saga of a medieval manor heir Auden Audensson, The Master of Hestviken. . Readers have to be aware that this saga is not for the faint hearted or the causual reader. You have to be a serious reader to undertake such a challenge. Undset was converted to Catholicism after her marriage to a previously married Italian man she had an affair with during her time in Italy. She took her conversion seriously. This saga is abundant with Catholic imagery and spirituality. As converts often are, she ventured beneath the veneer and found the good stuff often hidden from general view. The reader must be prepared to be educated in her venture. She is not an idealist, however. She weaves this spirituality into the lives of astonishingly human characters, not stripped of their human struggles to grasp their spiritual nature despite being bound by their humanity. If the reader is open to this challenge, they will be rewarded with both a great story, and a introduction to a spirituality that is not beyond them, but which, instead, is, perhaps, closer to them than they might like to admit. I give it five stars for a reason. It is a damn good book.
I started this book in Norway last summer. I can see why Sigrid Undset won a Nobel prize. It is very well written. For me the strength of the book is the psychological study of Olav Audunsson. If I had it to do over, though, I would have started with volume 1 of the series. There were too many background facts I didn't have to understand the plot and characters as well as I would have liked. And I couldn't find a good synopsis of the whole series online. I was also a little disappointed in the ending. It was more like just the end of another chapter. But I guess that's what you do when you're writing a series.
Whew! This was like giving birth! My all time favorite book. This was the third time I have read this and the first for a book club. It was enlightening to discuss. Dont be intimidated, just read it!!
This was the most difficult of the series. So much guilt and misery. I could not keep track of the characters, and their connections. The end was better, one more book to go.
Definitely worth reading if you are reading the whole series (The Master of Hestviken); however, not as riveting as the previous two books.
I really wanted to like this book. It's about a fascinating character, written by one of my favorite authors--a personal friend of Lawrence's. And I did like parts: the beginning and the end when Graves talked about Lawrence's early life and his life after the WWI campaign with the Arabs. The middle sagged and I found myself skimming over the blow by blow descriptions of (it felt like) nearly every raid or battle that Lawrence engaged in with the Arab uprising. The writing and history were as dry as the desert setting with only an occasional oasis of passion or insight into the major players. I wanted to know what motivated and inspired Lawrence and his Arab friends and foes. What I got was narrative that sounded like it came from field reports. I like biography and read a lot of it. I think Graves' version of Lawrence's life suffers from his personal friendship. I felt he held back.
I had heard of Lawrence of Arabia many times in print and popular media, but had never taken the opportunity to find out about him. This book, from my Uncle Gary's collection, was enjoyable to read and very informative about the events which form Lawrence's legend. Thanks Uncle Gary!
Most admirable..
A tribute to a heroic friend...
I loved the movie - this is better...Good writing and some depth to what made Lawrence tick
Although somewhat dated, a very enjoyable biography of T.E. Lawrence and his work with the Arabs. I coming to believe if those dividing up the spoils of World War I had listened to Lawrence many of the issues we face today in the world would have come to a head sooner and be done with. Overall excellent work for 1920's...
Oh, how amazing indeed was this play! I loved it to death. It is a play in three acts, where it is discussed between a mother and daughter that their son/brother-in-law, John Middleton, is having an affair, with his wife Constance's best friend, Mary Louise Durham. They are on the verge of divulging this to her, yet she non-nonchalantly dismisses every attempt, apparently leading her no where closer to the truth. However, in the following act, the temptress' own husband discovers the personal effect of John, and accuses him in the full audience of his wife, Constance's family and close friend Bernard. *inhale-exhale*I don't want to give away the rest, but one should REALLY watch/read this to find out Constance's reaction, her brilliant retaliation. Oh, it's so good, so wonderful!
This is just so unexpected. More like Oscar Wilde than my concept of Somerset Maugham. This is not "The Painted Veil." This is hilarious, witty, and of course, true. Great cast, too. I listened twice to catch the things I missed while laughing.
I could never understand how literary critics assign tags to pieces of literature. This seems to me as obscure as wine label descriptions: notes of cassis with hints of vanilla oak… Often one can see some resemblance, but leaves the tasting room with a feeling that two dozen other “notes” and “hints” would fit just as well. For instance, I could never understand what literature gets to be tagged as “feminist”. The correspondent Wikipedia page lists such works as “Pygmalion” (some feminism – female fulfillment through marrying a twice-older professor and bringing him his paper and slippers every morning!) Pre-WWII (and of course pre-WWW) literature concerned with women’s situation in the society was largely concentrated on women’s sexual liberation (to some extent). I may be blamed as a Marxist, but I figure economic freedom comes first, and everything else follow. When women do not have to depend on their husband materially, they are liberated (and equal) spiritually. With this in mind, I am surprised to find in the list of early feminist literature things like Pygmalion or Awakening by Kate Chopin (which I do not find feminist at all, even though it is touted as one of the most important early feminist fiction pieces), and do not find the brilliant (and brilliantly written) “The Sacred Giraffe” or the above play by Maugham. It is a very well written, in the best Shavian tradition, comedy, it is funny, it is witty, and it is as feminist as they come. The protagonist does not fight with the societal prejudices – she’s above them. With her strong character and acute mind, they are merely nuisances. A pretty good full cast audio from the LA Theater Works is available.
I was unsure whether I had read this play before or not - somehow I kept getting it mixed up with "Lady Windermere's Fan!" I also thought he was the author of "Tales of the City" (this confusion has an explanation - they sit right next to each other on the bookstore shelf).I enjoy the witty word-play and the strong female characters. The titular character's view of marriage is a tad to harsh for me to accept in whole, but she makes plenty of valid points. There are a few clumsy plot points, but on the whole I think it's a valuable piece of theatre literature.
Written in 1926, this play is still engaging with clever word plays and dialogue. The dramatized audio version, which features Kate Burton (Richard Burton's daughter) as one of the main players, includes cleverly-timed exchanges, timeless questions to ponder about marriage, and a twist at the end. Highly entertaining!
Outstanding! This play gets even better with age.
The audiobook version was entertaining. I recommend it for those looking for a lighthearted book. I cleaned the house while listening to it.
An excellent play, thoroughly post-modern and mature in its treatment of marriage and infidelity.
This story is in the style of Oscar Wilde, intelligent and witty. A very quick read with lots of laughs. I listened to it as a play on two CD's and found it most pleasurable.
Constance is a savvy lady! Some of the lines in this play were perfectly timed, and I would have loved to have seen them delivered. Smart.
A copy of this play was shelved in the incorrect section at my local library, where I stumbled upon it and realized I’ve never read any of Mr. Maugham’s work. I decided the universe was telling me to rectify this literary omission. I know nothing about the man, but I do know I really like this play. It’s a 1920s comedy of manners with an unexpected dash of feminism … and misogyny. I finished it not knowing if I should be cheering or appalled. The play opens with friends and family of Constance Middleton debating whether to inform her of her husband’s infidelity (with her best friend). What I adored about this play was the abundance of interesting female characters. This is a play for actresses – not one or two, but a whole company of talented actresses, none of whom are wilting ingénues. Those with a bent towards women’s rights should check out this play and decide for themselves whether its subversive feminism or horrifically chauvinist. Highly recommended.
The Constant Wife was an enjoyable story and was performed quite well by Kate Burton, Rosalind Ayres, and John de Lancie. I thought it was an insightful examination on the limitations that women had in marriage during that period. But, it was also quite funny and I did relish Constance's benign yet devilish manipulations.
I love Winifred Holtby's writing, and I love the covers of the new Virago editions of her work so much that I pounced on a bargain copy of The Land of Green Ginger, even though I already owned the original green VMC edition.But my feelings about this book were a little mixed - much more positive than negative, but definitely mixed.I really loved the heroine, and she carried me through the story.Joanna was born in South Africa, the daughter of Edith, who had dreamed of romance and adventure, and who had married a missionary. But when her mother died she was sent home, to be raised in Yorkshire, by her three spinster aunts. They cared for her, they did their very best for her, but they didn't understand the romance, the spirit of adventure, and the sheer joie de vivre that made their niece so very special.Her friends shared her dreams, and their futures seemed so very full of promise.But Joanna's dreams of romance derailed her. She met a young man - Teddy - the man of her dreams, who had as much romance in his soul as her. They were quick to marry, before he had to had to go away to war. He survived, he came home again: but the war killed the romance his soul.Teddy was consumptive - he hadn't told his wife that - and the war destroyed his health too. he needed to live in the country, in the fresh air, and so the young couple took up farming.It was a hard life, it wasn't a life that suited them, and they had a terrible run of bad luck. Joanna struggled with practical difficulties, social expectations, financial difficulties, and of course all of that took its toll on the couple's marriage. Taking in a dispossessed Hungarian as a paying guest seemed to be a wonderful idea, but Joanna's head was still full of romance and dreams, and she didn't see what her neighbours saw. A woman with a sick husband moving in another man ...Winifred Holtby brought the world that Joanna lived in to life wonderfully well. I saw that Joanna and Teddy were isolated, caught between the gentry and the working classes, and seen as outsiders, newcomers by their neighbours. I saw how small-minded villagers could be, and I saw how Joanna's high principles were so dreadfully misunderstood.I admired Joanna's spirit, her willingness to do everything she could for her family. I understood her frustration with her husband, with their situation. And I loved that she held on to her hope for the future. But the best thing of all was that she was a real, fallible, three-dimensional human being, so very vividly painted.I also appreciated that Winifred Holtby said so much about so many big things - the consequences of war, the problems of society and the class system, the problems facing women, wives and mothers - through this story. And that she said them with such passion.I was less taken with the men in Joanna's life - both husband and paying guest were completely wrapped up in their own problems. I understood, but it disappointed me, and I think it unbalanced the story.That lack of balance was a problem. Sometimes I saw the shifts between storytelling, character development and points being made, and that made the book feel rather unpolished. It was heartfelt, it was heart-rending, but I couldn't help feeling that it might have been more. That was maddening when so much was done so well.But I could never give up on Joanna, and I was so pleased that her ending had roots way back in the story; and that it wasn't really an ending at all, but a suggestion of future possibilities.It left me wondering if Winifred Holtby had plans for the Burton clan - Joanna in this book and Sarah in 'South Riding' shared a surname - and what more stories of Burton women she might have written, if only she had not died so very young.
very very good read. my first Holtby novel, long intended to read. Her work is incredibly modern and intelligent. character and place very evocative. will seek out further works.The Land Of Green Ginger is a real tiny street in Hull, my home town.
Beautifully written.The story of Joanna married to a consumptive and living the harsh reality of life on a farm in Yorkshire with a young family.She dreams of seeing the world.I loved it!
This is the third Winifred Holtby novel I've read now and I love the way she captures so accurately the atmosphere and mood of rural Yorkshire in the early part of the twentieth century. Joanna Burton is a delightful heroine, although somewhat naive. She leaves her native South Africa as a very young child after her mother dies and she ends up being cared for by aunts. Soon after leaving school to work in a nursing home, she meets and marries Teddy who is a consumptive. Joanna sacrifices a lot for Teddy and their two children, moving to a remote farm where life is hard and money in short supply. Joanna dreams of The Land Of Green Ginger, a life of travel and visiting exotic places. Her fantasies seem impossible to realise as she fights for the survival of the farm, her marriage and her husband. A threat to her relationship with Teddy arrives in the form of a Hungarian transient worker, Paul Szermai and rumours about his closeness to Joanna soon abound. Winifred Holtby gets to the heart of what it's like to be a woman, making sacrifices and compromises, but never quite giving up her dreams.
I didn't like this as much as South Riding but it was an interesting story. Many think the author is writing about the expectations on women when they marry, and it is in part this. But I think it is more about how difficult it is to live and be accepted in this world if one is different to the 'norm'of the community one lives in. If one thinks, acts, believes in a way that others cannot understand or see as 'normal', the way people should think, act, believe to be a good person, then one is misunderstood, ostracized and falsely accused. Such it is and has always been. Humanity is uncomfortable with others that live in any way different to their own and fear what they don't understand or can control/predict. This will eventually lead to growing resentment and the one that is different is seen as out side the laws (an outlaw) and is no longer protected by those laws that dictate decent and kind behaviour.
you see the female lead is so uninteresting that I could not care less about her fate especially that the style seems almost satirical which is not my cup of tea
Firstly, can I say that it didn't take me that long to read this story. I picked it up but had to put it to one side while other books took priority.This is the first book that I have read by this Author and it definitely won't be the last as I've already got South Riding waiting to be read on my bookshelf somewhere. I enjoyed the writing style and found it to be a good mix of narrative and descrptive passages.I chose this as my First World War read. The story relates the life of Joanna Burton, who travelled to Yorkshire to be brought up by her Aunts, following her early childhood in the Transvaal and the death of her Mother and Teddy Leigh, who she meets as he's leaving for the trenches of World War I. Joanna is a dreamer, dreaming of life in faraway lands but fate has other plans for her, she dreams of her heros Sir Walter Raleigh and others. Teddy Leigh knocks her off her feet and a whirlwind romance ensues followed by marriage.Life for Joanna will never be the same as Teddy returns from the War, he is not the man he was when he left as he returns a broken man damaged by his experiences and the War. Winifred Holtby conveys the feelings and emotions that this traumatised man is going through and the repercussions on those around that he loves. It must have been so hard on everyone concerned but will be no different than it is nowadays for the men, women and their families following tours of duty that the Forces do. PTSD is not a new phenomenom at all.If you have never read any of Winifred Holtby's writing before, please put that right and pick up one of her books and this is as good a place to start as any.
Looooooved this book. Completely unexpected as I bought this pack of books thinking this 'The Land of Green Ginger' was the Noel Langley version. I loved Joanna, the naive-but-hard-working main character who kept imagining even when faced with the drudgery of life on a farm and a poorly, ill-tempered, irrational husband. I loved the description of life in a village, where what people think is true is more important than the truth. I understood the descriptions of the 'despotism' of farming, a way of life that takes priority over any other concerns. Although farming is less physically demanding now, it can still be an emotional battle. I'm glad Joanna got her hopeful ending, and I hope she and the children had a happier, healthier life ahead.Thoroughly recommend. One of those books you read as quickly as possible whilst also wishing it will never end.
4.25I was in the perfect mood/mindset to read this charming book. My choice of the word charming might be misleading as all is not well with Joanna and Teddy. Teddy is consumptive and Joanna finds herself the target of a scandal. Although the novel is riddled with hardship, I was immersed in the world of the English countryside and found myself quite comfortable there. While this book is a comfortable read, it is in no way fluffy. Holtby is an intelligent author who uses fascinating vocabulary. Her style is effortless and enjoyable. I read this in two sittings, I didn't want to leave It's environ, in fact, I liked this so very much that I've already ordered two more of her books.
I've wanted to read this book for decades but only just got round to it. Yorkshire and the time of flux between the first and second world wars always a winning combination in my book. The title is the name of a street in Hull and sounds so whimsical. The book is far from whimsical, it is sad sad sad. Young woman marries in the whirl of war and at the end of hostilities finds herself with two children and a damaged husband. All of them are casualties of war. Not everything ends happily but sunlight can be seen poking round edges of the clouds. I'm glad that I finally bought the book and read it.
Interesting, and infuriating, when showing the plight of women in the early 20th century, particularly in rural settings - the prejudice and lack of freedom - but I couldn't be bothered with the fantasy stuff about Sir Walter Raleigh and knights etc. And quoting St Augustine at length seemed a bit of a cop-out. That sounds harsh, but I didn't find much to recommend this novel.
James clearly knows that he's chosen the wrong girlfriend, and he's heartily sick and tired of being thrown over for upper-class snobs who have money. The one time he refuses to behave "according to his station," he finds himself in a fix. Loved the twists and turns in this one!
A short story on how a young man’s antics to keep up with his girlfriend’s rich friends gets him involved in the case of a missing emerald. A bit slow in the beginning, James, our protagonist, clearly describes his frustrations with his girlfriend, Grace, as she prefers the company of her classy friends than his. In an attempt to keep up with them, an unintentional exchange of trousers lands him with the missing emerald belonging Rajah’s. From here things pick up and it’s an entertaining read.
I liked how the reader should have been too afraid that the protagonist is in danger but at last he doesn't just get away with it he also manage to save the day.
I am not sure why this is labeled as a Parker Pyne story as he in not in it at all . Maybe it was in a collection of Pyne stories. It was a good shirt story. But not one of her best.?
Cute short mystery. Agatha Christie, even when not at the top of her game (and I wouldn't consider that this is) is still miles more interesting to me than most other mystery writers. Good twist at the close.Reading unapologetically to fulfill 2018 PopSugar Reading Challenge category "book with your favorite color in the title" after trying in vain to find anything that interests me (and which I haven't already read) with the color green in the title. I've read a number of VERY LONG books already this year so I'm #notsorry that I'm adding a short story for a prompt. At least it's all text, which is more than I can say of the solution of using children's picture books to fulfill prompts.
This was an interesting, at time challenging, read. On the one hand, it was really very beautifully written. On the other hand, for the most part, I was pretty sure I didn't get a word of it. By the end, I began to slowly see the light, but even so I wasn't sure and I had to look up several academic analyses of the work to see how it matched up to my own interpretation. This isn't, in itself, a bad thing. But it did impede my complete enjoyment of it. Even now, I feel like I have a lot of questions about what happened here. This might be a good pick for a book club - so much to discuss!
It seems to me that in this, her first novel, Bowen so much wanted to out-james Henry James that she ruined a potentially good story. When the book starts, young Sydney Warren has been staying on the Riviera with a benign older cousin for some weeks. In their hotel, she is supposed to have developed an "unhealthy" attachment to a beautiful widow, Mrs. Kerr. But we never see how that relationship evolved, nor how Mrs Kerr misled Sydney or toyed with her affections, if that's what she did. But all of a sudden, Mrs Kerr's son Ronald joins his mother, and Mrs Kerr doesn't seem keen to introduce the young people to each other. Sydney is supposed to feel "slighted' or something. Another recent arrival at the hotel, a kind clergyman, proposes to Sydney, to be first turned down, then accepted, then rejected again. Mrs Kerr tells her son she's very sorry for Milton. I guess the reader is supposed to feel that this is the opposite of the truth, and that Mrs Kerr is a sinister woman, like Mrs Merle or other malevolent Henry James characters. However, Bowen's depiction of Mrs Kerr has been so indirect that I'm tempted to take her at her word, for want of proof of her deviousness. At the end of that scene, Mrs Kerr and Sydney exchange damning commentaries on each other, but again in such a way that I don't know what to make of them. I do think that Sydney has behaved atrociously towards Milton, and can't really blame Mrs Kerr for her selfish behavior. Either Bowen hasn't succeeded in her delineation of Sydney's character, or Sydney is just a self-absorbed brat, which would call into question the whole plot. Secondary characters and set pieces like picnics and outings involving numerous hotel guests are quite well done, but ultimately I felt baffled and frustrated with the crucial elements of the book.
I've got to say, the abstractions can make her difficult to read. When there's a young teen and his father on the bed next to you hyucking at the top of their lungs over the Marx Brothers, "this collapse had its austere fitness" is just a bunch of blithering.But when you're reading in peace & quiet, there's such a wonderful, insightful skew on reality to almost everything Bowen put into words.Plus, Veronica Lawrence, not the heroine of The Hotel but now my personal heroine? "As a matter of fact, I hate all my clothes. And I don't know what is to become of me. Does it ever occur to you being alive is a mistake?" And, "Look at the ridiculous way people don't know what they want and the fuss they make when they can't get it."And I absolutely love Bowen's "horrible little blighter," ten-year-old Cordelia, who's not afraid to call a spade a spade: "I only like people in books, who only exist when they matter."
Probably more of a 3.5 but I feel bad giving Elizabeth Bowen less than four stars because she is awesome. But seriously...what is happening here? I love passionate yet unspoken love affairs where two people express their fervent love for one another solely by exchanging tortured looks. Preferably while wearing dinner jackets and evening gowns. But this was just a little too unspoken in that there were significant portions where I could only guess at what was happening. BUT! Maybe Elizabeth Bowen is a genius and the book is emulating the repressed emotions of its characters and the confusion I felt trying to understand the plot mirrors Sydney's struggle with the opacity of life. So be forewarned - there is MUCH left unsaid here and EB hates Italian people, but she is a beautiful and wise writer and its always fun to read about the torturous love affairs of the idle rich. And - bonus! - since its EB, you know it's going to all end with heartbreak and shame.
A selection of the English middle classes are 'over-wintering' in a hotel on the Italian Riviera in the 1920 sThis is stunning- wry, incisive, quite cruel with great insight. Not a bit dated. The characters are superb and the language incredible.
It’s amazing when you read The Hotel to think this is a first novel. How was she so accomplished? How did she achieve, as Peter Ackroyd asks, “the munificence of detail, the fine closeness of the atmosphere which she creates?”I won’t disagree but will put forward that with all the astonishing skill she obviously displays in The Hotel, I did find some paragraphs almost impenetrable. Yes you can get to the bottom of what she means but they were a little exhausting and made for a very slow reading of the book:“James Milton’s attempt to come farther into her life, to regions by his acquaintance of them surely sufficiently ice-bound, appeared in the light of present considerations heroic: he had been staking his future. But his future, she recollected, spun itself off into infinity. He did not acknowledge finality anywhere; this made him leisurely-seeming and easily generous. His impulses in any direction were not intensified by her own sense of urgency. In the light shed serenely down from that ultimate spaciousness he was covering life at an equable space. He presented himself an undriven, a comforting figure. She saw him conducting a funeral: voluminous, fluttering, milk-white, leaning like one of these angels over the yawn of a grave to scatter his handful of earth, his tribute to mortality; with the expression, a submerged beam, of this having in a cognizant Mind its order. The word “death” used in his presence would have a slow-dying ring to it, to which one would be able to feel him subconsciously listening. She contemplated with a faint inclination a life shared with someone for whom it would have this overtone of significance.”Phew! Glad that’s over. You can see why it took me quite a while to read this book. On the other hand you have paragraphs like this one:“It was another of those idyllic evenings, agonisingly meaningless: the evening air brought out the scent of lemons. The Lawrences, shrugging up their wraps round their shoulders, slid forward in their chairs luxuriously and sank down into themselves like cat into their fur. Thin blue smoke drifted away through the clearness....”And you see that’s why I am glad I read The Hotel - for paragraphs such as this one. Recommended but not for the fainthearted.
Another excellent novel by Elizabeth Bowen. The main gist of the book is commentary on the British upper-class society and it's prejudices and problems caused by this. The story is about British travelers who are staying in a hotel on the Italian coast and their interactions.The characters are well-drawn, with both men and women equally well portrayed. There is romance, friendship, and much more going on in the book, and it will keep you reading. Bowen's style is lovely, and her descriptions often make one feel as though one is right there with her in the beauty of the Italian coast, with its hills, olive trees, flowers, and more. I know my friends who enjoy romantic stories that are more than just romance or, as it were, "chick-lit", will like this one a lot.
I bogged down in this one. Couldn't get interested in the characters. Didn't finish.
A wonderful book so evocative of the era of the 1920's.Set on the Italian Riviera, a cast of characters who are staying in the hotel.The bathroom scene was so funny and typical of a time before en-suites!I loved it!
This is a quiet book. There is definitely still some plot action, but mostly Bowen chooses to focus on developing the interior thoughts of the main characters. I turn to a Bowen book when I want beautifully constructed sentences, thoughtful interior monologues (and dialogues too) that just always hit the nail on the head, and an exquisite sense of place and time. However, these qualities just do not lend themselves to a speedy read. Each chapter and page is meant to be read slowly and inquisitively. This book was a perfect way for me to slow down after reading a few mystery books that I was able to just page right through. The basic plot centers around a group of English tourists all staying in the same Italian hotel for a summer around the turn of the century. We follow them throughout their day as a few mini-dramas occur. There are one or two characters that you get to know very well. While they can both seem extremely annoying if you just knew about their actions and how other people perceive them, once you "get inside their heads," you start to really understand them. There were definitely moments where I thought, "Yes, exactly!" after reading a section. I would recommend this to someone looking for a slow, thoughtful read.
An interesting book with some lovely passages, but patchy to follow and sometimes confusing. All became clear at the end. Feel that this book will pay re-reading as I did get frustrated at times and perhaps glossed over some parts without realising their full significance as I lost track easily. Perhaps explained by this being her first published novel as later works I have very much enjoyed.
At the beginning I couldnt quite work out what this book was really about. It was like Enchanted April without the enchantment and Room with a View with lots of Rooms in the Hotel and views of Italy but no passion. However about half way through I became absolutely intrigued by this novel and by Sydney, the complicated central character. There are lots of interesting reflections on time, on seizing the day and the sorts of relationship that can help us get through life, all taking place in the Italian countryside. Strangely there is almost no mention of any Italians. It all feels a little unreal, these little Englanders put together in a hotel for the holiday and hardly venturing out. Its a strange book, with quite a few relationships and things that are never fully explained, and the writing is very dense at times but beautiful I found. There is one scene in a river valley which is completely stuck in my head and haunting me. It was altogether very enjoyable and to my taste.
My, my, but a rather disappointing read. There was one scene I found rather amusing, but on the whole, nothing really happens, it's hard to like any of the characters and if this is what it was like to be a wealthy British citizen in the late 1920s, post-Great War, then I for one am glad I wasn't part of it. Now Bowen must be able to write better, since her Collected Stories is on the Bloom's Canon, but it's not likely I will be reading that after this experience.I can see why I wasn't able to get it through my library network, and ended up buying a used copy which is a discarded library copy that is in excellent condition, printed in 1972. I bought and finished it for a discussion, and I am quite thrilled that I am finished with this book.
I was wanting to love her -- lesbian! Early 20th-century! Something of a classic. But this took me FOREVER to get through. I was bored, and yet it was completely up my alley: sea resort hotel populated by upper-middle class British people. Comedy of manners. But not so funny or interesting, alas.
This was my first book by Elizabeth Bowen. I liked it well enough though it was a bit confusing and difficult to follow at times. Bowen's prose is Modernist and she uses a modified version of Woolf's free indirect discourse to good effect. Actually, Bowen's use of that form of narration is probably more similar to Austen than it is to Woolf, though there is one parenthetical aside in the text that is quite obviously a nod to Woolf. I say the narration is more like Austen in that Bowen moves in and out of her characters' consciousnesses and also makes use of third person narration whereas in Woolf's more modernist works the reader is primarily inside the heads of characters throughout.There is a rather interesting allusion to Pride and Prejudice in the novel that I am still processing. I do see instances here where Bowen may be attempting an update of sorts of Austen's marriage plots, but I don't feel confident enough in that theory to expound in very much detail. I would likely have to read the novel a second time to see if the idea holds up. I'm not convinced that Bowen was fully successful in what she was trying to achieve in this, her first, novel, but the style and subject matter is intriguing enough for me that I'll likely read more from her.
I usually love character-driven novels and the idea of a group of characters in a closed setting (a hotel on the Italian Riviera in the 1920's in this case) sounds especially appealing. But for such a short book, The Hotel took me an awfully long time to read.The Hotel is not a novel to read for the story; there is actually very little in the way of plot. It's all about relationships - some existing, but most are new. It is well-written and perceptive, but it's also cold... distant, chilly, perhaps even clinical. Bowen seems to feel no warmth toward her characters, and as a result, I felt none either. Whenever I put the book down, there was never a hurry to pick it up again.I read The House in Paris several years ago and, while I liked it better than The Hotel, the same coolness was present and it was also a very slow read. I wonder if this is true for all of Bowen's novels.I hate to say it, but the cover was my favorite part of this book.Bottom line:The Hotel is beautifully written and insightful, but somewhat cold and not especially compelling.
Finally finished this most unsatisfactory novel. Actually, I can't remember now why I wanted to read it - it must have cropped up in another "read" somewhere. However, the reason it intrigued me was that it was hyped as a novel with delicate undertones of things going on between people beneath their superficial daily interactions. I wish this was true. In fact, I found Bowen's writing so opaque that I often had no idea what was going on! The novel centres on a bunch of English tourists, mainly women, staying at leisure in a resort hotel on the Italian Riviera. It opens, promisingly enough, with a stand-off between a Miss Pym and a Miss Fitzgerald, who have obviously had an argument or at least some kind of awkward moment, but their situation is not resolved until the very last page of the book! Other meetings and events follow, but I had a curious sense of waiting - through the entire book, actually - for some resolution, something to actually happen, so that people were changed by their conversations and interactions. Instead, it seemed to me that one vague thread of dialogue was followed or interrupted by a lengthy and superfluous description of the state of the sea or sky or a clump of trees. (At one point, Bowen describes a clear, cloudless sky - but with no sun. Go figure.)Okay - there is a bit of action. Sydney, an insecure young girl with a promisingly unconventional streak that never gets anywhere, first rejects, then accepts and finally rejects again, a proposal of marriage from an older man, a clergyman. Yet I never believed in either the attraction between the two or the disappointment and unhappiness of the clergyman at his rejection. In fact, I couldn't feel the characters at all. Sometimes a writer can make you practically reach out and touch them - not this writer. Sydney is supposed to be suffering an "unhealthy" attachment to a Mrs Kerr, who is one of those ultra-worldly types native to hotels on the Riviera, but there is no sense of this attachment coming from either Mrs Kerr or Sydney - only a bit of reported gossip from the other ladies and one or two other vague indications in the text. If these are meant to indicate a "crush", "romantic friendship", etc, it was way too subtle for me.I think my main criticism of this book would have to be what (again, for me - sorry to anyone else who enjoyed it) struck me as its pallor: pastel, undefined people, situations and places; perhaps an attempt at subtlety that just didn't come off. The American poet, May Sarton, who knew Bowen, disliked her style, calling it "mannered". I agree. I would add opaque, vague, at times incomprehensible, but above all, boring.
Elizabeth Bowen's first published novel, this is a beautifully written novel, a hugely accomplished work, not my favourite Bowen, but very good indeed.Full review here: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/...
Bowen's first book - perhaps should have been a long short story… superb command of language.
Her first novel apparently - could explain why I never reached the end; tried it several times, sticking about chapters 3 or 4.
I was a little frustrated with this book. I’ve enjoyed other literature from the 1920s, and the back cover copy of my edition promised great things - ‘The world’s Bowen creates are so immediately absorbing, the glimpses she allows us of the eccentricities of other people’s relationships so fascinating, that one cannot helping wanting more’.Well I could have done with more story for one, though I agree that the book’s strength lies in its character studies, and in particular in the relationships between the characters. Different pairing emerge - some enabling each others’ eccentricities, others building each other up or diminishing each other in turn. Her characters are deftly illustrated with humour and sympathy. They occupy a bubble in space and time - a hotel on the Italian Riviera, and herein lies the concept and also the really the difficulty of the book. They’re not going anywhere. There is no journey for us to follow. Here are these dysfunctional characters, English people of a certain social standing and we are mere observers of their carefree, and largely interest-free days in the sun. This feeling of stagnation was heightened for me by the use of long sentence and over intricate descriptions. I think I’ll try another of Bowen’s books I think, but so far for me, she hasn’t topped the wits of Dodie Smith or Stella Gibbons.
A perfect novella.
I remain deeply affected by Shklovsky. I have not been able to say precisely why. I had my hunches. This particular edition of THIRD FACTORY concludes with a brief statement by Lyn Hejinian, the "Language" writer. She excavates the tremendous impact Shklovsky had on the early "Language" writers of the 1970s whose own experiments with sentences and paragraphs coincided with Richard Sheldon's translation of Shklovsky. In just a few pages, Hejinian clarify the issue; a certain faith in sensibility that ties together words into sentences and sentences into paragraphs even under a highly strict reductionism. An eschewal of grandiloquence. An almost objectivist (to be anachronistic) commitment to the image as communicated in a condensed utterance. These images remain with me. They form an object of small manufacture that lingers on and on. It is also useful to note that "Language" writers, most of them anti-imperialist petite bourgeois white intellectuals (of American pedigree) would cleave to Shklovsky, the anti-Bolshevik anti-Tsarist. Restoring sensation of the world remains an urgent task whether that sensation has been deadened by dictatorships of capital or of bureaucrats. Which is to say, Shklovsky has much to teach us about the devices of art in the mid-step of our own revolutionary moment.
Shklovsky was a major literary and social critic whose ideas about literary form (Formalism) aligned him with the Futurists of the Russian avant-garde in the teens and twenties (Mayakovsky, Khlebnikov etc.) This book of essays deals with the various 'factories' which processed himself as a human being. The first factory was his family and education. The second, the avant garde circles of writers and poets in the exciting Revolutionary period, who made fascinating inroads into the possibilities of language and form. The Third Factory was ostensibly the job he held at the Gosfilm after his literary school became officially 'politically retrograde', and publication became difficult. But in fact, it's the factory of the phase of life in which thought continues even after social usefulness (so deemed) is over. How we are processed by our times, and how it feels to be thus processed, this is the subject of Third Factory--how it is to be the vegetables from which the soup is extracted. As always, Shklovsky's writing style is epigrammatic and pointed, funny and full of exceptional metaphor (like being the vegetables thrown away after the Soviet soup is made). This is the kind of book that I'll pick up and just read a page to be reinspired... Can you ever say a book like that is "read"? But I don't want to keep it on "currently reading" forever....
A great Russian Formalist genre busting read: "Take me, third factory of life!"
Self-indulgent and tedious, this part biography, part fiction, part poetry, part literary criticism collection isn't worth anyone's time.
"My brain is busy with the daily grind. The high point of the day is morning tea. And that is too bad: some artists shed blood and sperm. Others urinate. Net weight is all that matters to the buyer."
I read a translation of this play into English. Cocteau's film version is so great that I was greatly disappointed to see how little the original play had in common with it. There were no scenes in that strange underworld in the film, and the character of death (the great Maria Casares in the film version) seems even a little insipid. On the other hand, Orpheus, Eurydice, and Heurtebise are recognizably the same.
I wasted an hour of my life, everything is to hate in that book, the protagonist deserve the award of dick of the year, honestly.
Rating: 3.7 / 5Sometimes, the film adaptation of a movie is faithful to the novel almost 100%, as in the case of, say, Silence of the Lambs, which pretty much takes word for word and event for event from the Harris's novel. But then, there are other films that differ almost 100% from the novels, as is the case for Alfred Hitchcock's Spellbound from Francis Beeding's The House of Dr. Edwardes (original title).Basically, the only things that are similar about the novel and the film are some of the names, the fact that there is an asylum involved, and the doctor-patient switch is part of the plot in both films. However, everything else is entirely different.Rather than compare between the novel and the film though, I would prefer to take the novel in and of itself and specify what I liked and disliked. I've decided to do it this way because the film was an instant favourite of mine, with actors whom I adore, a director whose style I love, lots of uses of psychology and psychoanalysis of the subconscious, and the art of Salvador Dali to top it all off--a perfect movie suited to my tastes, in other words.The book is...really different in this respect.Okay, so, what I DID like is the general setup of the asylum, and its patients. The asylum is isolated somewhere in France near the Alps, with a village nearby, but not close enough so that they can hear you scream, if you get my meaning. I thought that it made sense to have it in a nature setting, where the intense emotions and psychology would be all the more interesting and fleshed-out, and, in some ways, it is. The patients, for instance, are all distinct characters, with their own fun quirks. A lot of the novel spends time acquainting the reader with both the setting and the characters, which is why I think that it's really strong in these points. There's eight total patients: Mr. Curtis, who's always talking to the imaginary Stimson, the Reverend, the Colonel, Miss Archer who thinks she's Saint Theresa, prim and proper miss Truelow, the poet-musician Mr. Clearwater, a 60-something lady who think she's aging backwards and has reached age 10 in the story, and the dangerous homicidal maniac Godstone. Of the staff, the main heroine Constance, Dr. Murchison, and Mr. Denning (Delling?) are also very distinct, and their interactions with the patients and each other are quite interesting to read through.In other words, the setup is very good, except for, ironically enough, the lack of discussion on psychology, which is something I DID NOT like. Partly because of the movie and partly because the setting is, well, and asylum, I expected there to be much more discussion and general exposition by way of psychology and the principles in play at the time. There is some allusion to one or two methods and psychoanalysts like Freud (who's the obvious one, but still), but this is only near the beginning, and after that it isn't really pursued. Again, the story dwells a lot on establishing character, so it kind of showcases mental illness via the way that the patients are behaving and what they believe and whatnot, but because they have many moments of lucidity when the plot calls for it, and are all painted as intelligent enough to know what's going on outside their delusions, as patients they seem to be in the last stages of being cured. At most times, if anything, they just seem like quirky people who are a bit odd and out of it at times, but not enough to have the legal term of "insanity" applied to them. So, yes, again, while the characters are strong, the psychology behind them was strangely lacking.Another thing that I DID NOT like is the whole devil-worshiping angle of the story. If I had to list one thing that I really didn't like, it would be this, because, for most of the story, I could imagine the characters as being a-okay and real enough, with Bergman and Peck taking on the lead roles in the narrative, but there's something just so unnecessary of bringing in a taboo cult into what should already be an interesting enough setting--i.e. the whole asylum, mental illness angle that the story didn't work on enough. Basically, if they could have substituted psychology for devil-worshiping, which is what the film did, they would have had a better story, and it probably could have translated to the screen more fully than it did. Obviously, this is something that it's too late to change and would kind of make the story pointless, but in itself, I kind of wish that the author had stayed away from this angle and put it to use in a different story, perhaps with a different setting and set of characters. And what I mean on my point above isn't because I'm prejudiced against using taboo concepts in novels in any way--after all, art is art, but I feel that it has to be done at the right moment in order to be acceptable as such. For instance, in The Monk by Matthew Lewis (which is one of my favourite books, as of this year), the whole devil-worshiping aspect is also a huge plot point, but it makes sense to use it there, because the Monk, Ambrosio, is struggling against inner temptations, and so obviously the devil is going to be involved somehow. That's a plot that calls for having a character worship the devil, and so I have nothing against reading about it there--it makes the story better.But in Spellbound, the direction of that sort of plot is at complete odds with the setting and characters established. Now, I knew to expect this, since the brief summary on the leaf of the book makes it obvious that this is the direction it's taking, but I guess that I was hoping for the two halves of the story to connect more convincingly than they did.That being said, and to close off, another thing that I DID like was just the writing style in itself, which was clear and easy to read, but also detailed and artistically written as well. There was a distinct narrative voice and tone, and I was impressed by how the narrative could zone in on events from different characters' main points of view and still leave me interested.So, all in all, I did like the novel for the most part in how it was set up and written, but the plot was just a bit iffy to me based on the route the author decided to take. All in all, I'm thus a bigger fan of Hitchcock's movie than I am the book. Glad that I read it though!
Used by Hitchcock as basis for his movie Spellbound, this is one case where the movie is far, far better than the book. Written in 1927, the book reads more like something from 50-75 years earlier. As with most of that genre from the mid to late 1800s, the opening is fine, the middle far too drawn out, and the ending too pat. The only common point between the movie and the book is the basic premise of a lunatic posing as a psychiatrist. The main difference between the two is that the movie is brilliant and the book is not.
Loved this story!
The House of Dr. Edwardes is a modern gothic novel about about madness, power and terror. When a mental asylum receives a new director, reality and fantasy, sanity and madness become harder and harder to distinguish. I highly recommend it-a real spine-tingler! Side note:The House of Dr. Edwardes was written by John Leslie Palmer and Hilary Aidan St. George Saunders under the pseudonym Francis Beeding. Hitchcock based Spellbound loosely upon this gothic detective story.
I read this because it was the basis for the Hitchcock movie Spellbound. It was, however, very little like the movie. Hitchcock changed the story radically.The original novel conveys a creepy atmosphere well, but the mystery at its heart is easily solved and the plot moves too slowly. It builds to a wearisome climax of will-she-or-won't-she-be-raped, one of my least favorite literary tropes. All in all, a waste of reading time.
I read this book as a reissue entitled Spellbound. this book was the inspiration for Hitchcock's movie "Spellbound", the only similarities to the book and movie are the names of Dr. Edwardes, Dr. Murchison, and Constance. not a bad book at all. i was kept in suspense from beginning to end. it's a shame Hitchcock couldn't follow the book exactly b/c a movie of this book by him would have been incredible... not that Spellbound isn't a fantastic in itself.
This was a terrible book. It was the January selection for Lifelong Learning's Book to Film series. No one in the discussion group liked it either. The only positive comment being that it was at least a very quick read. The movie, Spellbound, was terrific however. It bore no resemblance to the book.
Not the movie...I am fond of the movie that was taken, very loosely, from this book; Spellbound. See the movie again, for this has only a mental hospital & some character names that are present in the movie. Satanism is featured to some degree. I borrowed this book on Kindle Unlimited. Glad I didn't waste any money, just a little time.
This book was the basis for Hitchcock's film Spellbound with Gregory Peck and Ingrid Bergman. As a huge Hitchcock fan, I had to read the book. The book is quite different from the movie as usual, but I thought the book was extremely creepy in its own right and I could see why Hitchcock would be inspired by it. I liked the psychological aspects despite it's somewhat predictability.
Started by liking it, but ended up bored with the devil worship and skipped through to the end.
A bit predictable, but a very good read.
With the opening of England's first institution for the criminally insane in the middle of the 19th century, the notorious Broadmoor, and with England's long history of confining mentally ill individuals to not only hospital wards but also prison cells, it is of no great surprise that Frances Beeding, a pseudonym for two skillful individuals, found a fascinating subject in these still somewhat recent mental hospitals.Questions about how to manage such a facility effectively would certainly have been on the mind of Britons, especially those who resided a stone's throw away from one of these hospitals, since traditionally mentally ill individuals who had committed crimes had been treated simply as criminals and had been punished as such, being locked away in a prison and given no psychological treatment whatsoever. It is natural, therefore, that once hospitals instead of prisons began to house these individuals, there would be concerns as to the safety and well-being of the public at large. Frances Beeding does a fantastic job of playing directly on the fears and worries the public no doubt had in this wonderfully written novel that never fails to keep you wondering what is going to happen next.
By now, the twist premise (which I'm not going to spoil for you) has been so overused that it doesn't seem strong enough to carry a novel alone, but the first two-thirds are still a classic example of keeping things ominous without obviously telegraphing all of what's going on.
After a year of reading, I finished the last half of the book in about a day. A psychological thriller from the 1920s set in an isolated private mental institution. I'm not sure I'd the first half is really that much shower than the second half, but the climax and conclusion were riveting.
It was more frightening than I imagined it could be Hitchcock had good material for his film!
I've always loved Doctor Dolittle's stories. This book is great but unfortunately it lost me after finishing 2/3 part. The moon journey plot is not very appealing and distracts from the main title.
This is a slightly strange Dr. Doolittle book, a bit disjointed and a non-ending, but containing lots of entertainingly told stories within. The book comprises roughly three different themes, although it's allegedly divided into four parts. The first part of the book tells about a club for crossbred dogs and has several of them telling stories after dinner about their lives. It's quite entertaining. Then, leaving the dogs behind, Dr. Doolittle becomes obsessed with learning the language of insects, so he contrives an apparatus for doing that, and eventually manages to learn some insect stories, particularly one about a water beetle who was transported in a clod of mud on a duck's foot over to Brazil, and eventually a few years later, back again. Somewhere in the story telling, Dr. Doolittle hears rumors of giant moths, so quizzes his animal and insect friends for more information about them. Then, quite suddenly, a giant moth shows up in his garden. So they spend the last third of the book (roughly) learning to communicate with the moth, trying to keep the public away, wondering about where to go on a new voyage and whom to take, and so forth. This story is told through the eyes of Thomas Stubbins who has become Dr. Doolittle's assistant somewhere after Dr. Doolittle's Circus and before the present book (two volumes that I seem to have missed in my current re-reading of the series). I've always thought the primary fun in the Dr. Doolittle books were the little stories that the animals tell each other within the confines of the major plot themes.
I love these delightful books! This one leaves you with a bit of a cliffhanger, and I can't wait to get my hands on the next one so I can find out what happens! Dolittle really is an extraordinary character.
Doctor Dolittle's Garden occupies an odd spot in the Dolittle series; it's a transitional book, covering the end of the multi-book "entertainment" plot (as I call it) and the Moon plot that followed.The entertainment plot begins all the way back in the first book of the series, when the Pushmi-Pullyu goes home with the Doctor to help him make money to pay off his debts. It continues with the Dolittle Zoo and Caravan, the Puddleby Pantomime, and the Canary Opera. While the Doctor is, of course, himself always quite uninterested in money and even actively hostile to the concept ("Money! It's a curse."), the essential thrust of the entertainment plot is always how to make more of it.The Moon plot, on the other hand, couldn't be more different: not only is money not a factor, but the Doctor literally leaves the whole world in which money matters behind. That portion of the series focuses exclusively on discovery, exploration, and adventure. It almost seems that the Doctor's sudden fascination with the Moon might be a reaction to the previous multi-book focus on money, which was always an irritant to the character!Doctor Dolittle's Garden spans the change-over between the two story arcs. But it's quite an abrupt change, so much so that in many ways it's really almost two different books rather than one.I've been reading the entire Dolittle series to my son. We started when he was five years old; now he's seven. I should explain that we haven't restricted ourselves to Dolittle only, of course, and we mostly read at bedtime. On some nights he falls asleep so quickly that we make no progress at all, because he tends to forget the last page or so that I read before he fell asleep (or rather, I don't always notice exactly when he fell asleep).Anyway, this was a tough one to get through - so much so that even though we renewed the book once (it's a library book), it's still a week or so overdue. My son started getting a little bored towards the end of the first quarter of the book; roughly half-way through the "garden" portion, which could be considered the end of the entertainment story arc. It took a bit of determination on my part to get him to stick with the book, plus the promise that the Moon portion was coming up soon. I'd told him a little about the Moon plot about a year ago, and the idea captured his imagination quite powerfully.In fact, as the Moon plot picked up steam, his attention likewise sharpened. We even began reading the book in the car during my morning commute (in part, I must admit, because I felt guilty at having kept the book out from the library for so long - and on inter-library loan, too!).As always, Prince Bumpo of the Jolliginki was a favorite. It's a pity that so much of him has been censored out of modern editions; fortunately the copy from the library was an old one, and therefore uncensored. There was only one "Bumpoism" that I recall, but it got a lot of laughs.I should emphasize here that I don't feel that Lofting's portrayal of Prince Bumpo was racist. Lofting was a creature of his time: a Englishman of the early 20th century, with the provicial outlook typical of the time and some attitudes about race that can seem quite jarring to modern eyes (I'm reminded of Agatha Christie's casual racism, but Lofting is far less offensive). Losting's drawings, admittedly, can be odd; they make Bumpo look more than half a giant chimpanzee. For example, there's a drawing of Bumpo in Doctor Dolittle's Garden that was so ape-like that my son remarked on it; he thought it was strange. But Bumpo himself, for all that he's a comic character, is always clearly represented from the first book onward as good-hearted and brave, a friend to the Doctor and his animals - as witnessed by the fact that he is still a member of the Dolittle "family" many books later. And unlike the often-misbehaving Matthew Mugg (the Cat's-Meat-Man), Bumpo is always a trustworthy and staunch member of the family. Not that Matthew is bad, of course...he just has difficulty restraining his criminal tendencies (one of my son's favorite Dolittle memories is of the time that the Doctor goes to jail and finds Matthew's initials on his cell wall).Bumpo does have a tendency to violence towards intruding outsiders, and in previous books there were some humorous references to cannibalism which were doubtless deleted from modern editions. But Bumpo, like Jim from Huckleberry Finn, has been the victim of perhaps well-intentioned but certainly misplaced censorship by over-nervous editors (including, alas, Lofting's son).Once the Moon story is properly launched the pace of the plot picks up. My son regained his interest at that point. But fair warning: the book ends quite abruptly, and on what can only be called a cliffhanger. The Doctor and his companions are still hanging just above the surface of the Moon!If you're just starting the Dolittle series, this book is not the place to start. Unless for some reason you want to restrict yourself to the Moon plot only - in which case, you'd probably want to start half-way through. But I wouldn't recommend it. Much better to start with the first book and progress in order throughout the series, even though it does tend to jump back and forth in time between books. That said, despite the slow patch in the first half or so, Doctor Dolittle's Garden is still an exciting, enjoyable book that my son and I both liked very much.
Longtime favorite I first read a Doctor Doolittle book when I was in elementary school. I still reread them periodically. Hugh Lofting’s characters are timeless.
Starting to understand the style of P G Wodehouse and the ‘Jeeves and Wooster’ stories. Rather an easy and jolly read this one. All I can say is “Well, isn’t Jeeves a cunning fellow!!”
I just love Wodehouse but unlike most people I don’t consider that stories involving Jeeves & Wooster are his best. I have to say I enjoy the Blandings series or his stand-alone books a lot more. Still, I try to read every single Wodehouse story I can get my hands on so I couldn’t let this one pass!This is a short, amusing story with things going terribly wrong for Bertie and Jeeves saving the day, as usual. Not terribly original but enjoyable nonetheless.
Festive cheer from Bertie.This is a short story set, unsurprisingly around the festive period. The 23rd, 24th & 25th to be precise. It's classic Jeeves and Wooster and just right to read whilst digesting the Christmas dinner.
Classic Wodehouse!
3 stars not because it was bad but just so short!
Free Download - Having never read any P.G.Wodehouse I enjoyed this short snippet, and will look out for more by this author now :-)
What I know about the stories of P.G. Wodehouse, specifically, the Jeeves stories, I can count on one hand - they are about an Edwardian rich toff called Bertie Wooster and his valet, Jeeves, and that there was a series of TV adaptions starring Hugh Laurie and Stephen Fry, in the 1990s.So when I spotted this free story on Amazon, I decided to take a punt.Bertie is invited to stay with the family of his heart's desire, Bobbie Wickham. Despite Jeeves' remarks about her not being the right woman for Bertie, Wooster ignores him completely and goes about exacting his revenge on Tuppy, his friend who had played a trick with a hot water bottle on poor Bertie. Bertie's plan of revenge was suggested by Bobbie.Except it goes slightly awry. Instead of pranking Tubby, Bertie winds up waking and angering Tubby's uncle, Sir Roderick. Bertie even ends up losing his own bed in the process.I really liked the writing style and humour of this story. There's too many funny bits to quote, so I shall just suggest you go and grab yourself a copy and discover them yourself.
A wonderful delight ! :)
*2.5 starsA brilliant little story introducing me to P.G Woodhouse and his famous series of Jeeves and Wooster. I really enjoyed the character of Jeeves, and I’m quite excited to expand further into the realm of Woodhouse and his stories. I really think he’ll be an author I enjoy if his writing is as fun and entertaining as this one!
A lovely, witty short story, perfect for Christmas and all the better for being free. Jeeves and Wooster are up to their same old tricks, pulling pranks on other members of the household before Christmas, exacerbated by the fact that they were meant to be going to Monte Carlo and that Wooster is in love with a girl in the house he is staying. Needless to say Jeeves gets his trip to Monte Carlo.
Brilliant as ever. Wodehouse is unparalleled as a writer of comic fiction. Just the tonic old boy on a grey January morn.
A short but mildly amusing story.
Russell is a joy to read, and along with Popper my favourite writer in philosophy. He always writes accessibly, but this volume is a little unusual in being directed at a lay audience. The book was written explicitly for the American market of the 1920s, and is thus pitched at perhaps a more challenging level than might be attempted today, but will still be light review material for a student of philosophy. It is ferociously non-mathematical.Russell possesses a delightfully wry wit, reminiscent of Hume, which eases the way. One is startled to learn that Kant was a misfortune - as one reviewer says in the introduction, an epithet more properly reserved for Hegel. The author is apparently a "plain man"! Spinoza's greatness is ethical rather than metaphysical, and "accordingly" his contemporaries treated him as a profound metaphysician but maximally wicked man. Little gems like this pepper the text.The book is divided into four main sections dealing with the external and perceptual world of the mind, the physical world and causality, the inner world of the mind and the Universe and man's place in it. Russell's philosophy can probably best be described as pragmatic positivism: He rejects solipsism, idealism, naive materialism and all such monomanias. He espouses neutral monism - the view that mind and matter are manifestations of one reality, a view that has weathered the decades well. His physics is now a bit out of date, but not in ways fatal to his constructs. He admits that solipsism and other such constructs are logically unassailable, but chooses not to accept them - the idea of a real, phenomenal Universe is not logically necessary but logically consistent and basically sensible.This is basically a sensible man, and a sensible book. Very well worth reading as a first introduction to philosophy, perhaps accompanied by his History of Western Philosophy.
One of the short work of Russel targetting mainly general reader. Here Russel tried to bring the connection of philosophy, psychology, science, especially in his days. To construct a comprehensive view on the subject like philosophy one needs to scrutinize the capacity to which extend one can explore by which method. That is what the book strived to do.It was very much engrossed in the process how we know something when we say we know from the context of science, philosophy, psychology.But Russel seemed to lost in the arguments, sometimes unnecessarily elaborated some topic which is obvious. Had a tough time reading Russel's long sentences.
In 1927, a publisher Russell says he would pay $ 5,000 if he wrote a 100,000-word philosophical book. Russell accepts the offer and writes a book in 3 months. Human beings are questioned at the level of atomic structure, from the outside, from inside to the physical world, with the discoveries of time. While it is interesting that the atomic structure and electron movements are studied and interpreted philosophically at the level of Bohr atomic theorists, those who read Russell's other books are going to recapture in some parts.
An incredibly clear explanation for the hardest concepts to explain, those that we use every day to define reality but we didn't pay enough attention to even consider what they mean, what is consciousness, what is though, what is memory, learning, language, emotions, inference, etc Bertrand transport us in a structured even poetic way into the purpose and basis for philosophy, giving us a good stand inside the universe and our challenges to understand it
One of the great pleasures in reading Bertrand Russell for me was when he discusses the role of philosophy in a society where science has been the approach to finding out what is real and true in our universe. As science plays a greater role in our lives, there seems to be less space for philosophy. The other was when Russell plainly says that he doesn't understand Kant. As someone who openly praises science over philosophy, I take a certain joy in this. However, it should be understood that science is good at answering the small questions in life, not the large ones. Sometimes it's good to step back and see exactly what the larger picture is of the small questions science has been answering. And that's where Russell's Outline of Philosophy comes in.Although much has changed since this book was written in 1927, some of the philosophical questions Russell examines are still worthwhile considering given what we've learnt about the world around us. Philosophy becomes important when we realize that when we ask a really precise question, we come to uncertainty of some kind, and so we depend on larger 'philosophical' to make sense of our world sometimes. How does an eye work is easier than asking how a certain wavelength causes a certain cell in the retina to send a signal to the brain.Outline of Philosophy is broken down into question relating to, among other things, man (sic) and his environment (and his focus on manipulating the earth into making more human beings), the process of learning (how he is able to labor in the present for reward in the future, and focus on behavior that maximizes the amount of offspring), language what words can mean, how it relates to physics and relativity (how do we know that's really there and how can two people experience something the exact same way?) and how can we describe and properly study events that happen internally and privately (like a headache). Though some of these questions are more interesting than others, on the whole the topics are discussed by Russell in a very interesting fashion.And although I thought this book would serve as an appetizer for Russell's History of Western Philosophy, the truth is that Outline of Philosophy is no supplement but stands on its own.
I always struggle reading philosophy. The ideas are big, the sentences are long, and there doesn't appear to be much of a point of it all. I find I don't actually pick much up from it, but I'm a stubborn whatsit, and keep trying in the hope that it will all make sense.I got on better with Russell than with anyone else so far. His writing is accessible. (The Introduction actually explains that the book is based on a first-year introduction to philosophy class that he taught, so it's very much aimed at the beginner.) But in addition to that, Russell's ideas of epistemology are very much rooted in science. He spends a lot of time discussing how, and to what extent, the laws of physics determine how much we can actually know about the world, and how that information is received by our bodies. To me, that is much more sensible than philosophising from an ideological point of view. Russell's ultimate conclusions about man's place in the world, and the role of philosophy, I find very satisfying: the role is not to decide what is good, or what the right way to live is, but what is true. And whether what is true is good or bad, to recognise it honestly.The most interesting chapter by far to me was the chapter on the structure of the atom. Not for any philosophical reason, but for the insight it lent me into the state of scientific understanding in the mid-twenties, when Russell wrote this text. I kind of knew that all the things we know now were discovered at some point, and that this must have happened in some sort of sequence, but I couldn't have told you the order in which stuff happened. Reading this chapter taught me that Russell knew about nuclei and electrons, photons, quantum theory, isotopes. But, not about the neutron, which was discovered in 1932. I found it fascinating to read a (very accomplished) discussion of atomic theory weaving around this quite major missing detail.I'm sure I'll come back to that chapter to amaze myself again. I should come back to the rest of the book as well, to see if I can assimilate a bit more of the vast amount of sensible philosophising included.
As a Philosophy student, I like to think of ways I can get my hands on all quality philosophical works available to me. One thing that this book enables you is to identify a good book from an okay one; this is definitely a good one. Russell's goal in this book is to characteristically organize human thought and its value in its "universality". So, the book opens with a nice introduction to some of the philosophical doubts and develops into an analysis of psychological dynamics of human understandings; language and memory is regarded as most crucial in this section of the book. The next section, he deals with the physical world, the constituents of reality and the relations built in physical laws. He ends this section with an analysis of human insight of this apparent reality. In the next section, the discussion moves to an intesional analysis of human self and learning. The last section is a general remark of Russell's views on a few mathematical rules involving operations and inferences, and the insights on regularities of physical laws. I recommend this book to all those who enjoy thinking about how mice learn to escape a maze in lesser time in each successing attempt. And don't forget to keep a cup of coffee with yourself and a pack of cigarettes.Talha.
The only thing wrong with this book is that Russell tackles such a wide array of topics that one chapter heading itself could be expanded into a full length novel.
Enjoying the lucid writing style and insights.
The pleasure of reading a well written mystery novel cannot be replaced by anything in the world.
Another oldie found in our inherited library. Overall liked it. The first few chapters were especially intriguing, with a glimpse into that time period which urged me to read more. However, I felt the pacing in the second 2/3 fizzled out a bit. The ending had a unique twist as to how the murder was committed.
will not read one of these books as written by someone from another country
First of all I have to say I'm usually not a big fan of crime novels. However I kind of liked this book. After a few chapters I actually got intrigued. The best part of the book was Vance sarcasm and reasoning, even though he used way too many French (?) and Latin phrases that I didn't understand. But obviously, he is supposed to be highly intelligent which is why he has to speak in that manner, lol. I'm also pleased with the ending which is why I finally decided to rate it 3 stars, even though 99 % of the novel is just interrogations with suspects (but I guess that's normal for a golden age novel). What I found weird was that the narrator (Van) never really interfered or anything. He was just in the background, observing and occasionally shaking hands with people. You could compare Vance and Van with Sherlock and Watson. The big difference is of course that Watson usually plays a significant role in the stories, while Van just follows Vance around quietly. Another down-side was that no one seems to think highly of women. They're amazed at the fact that Miss La Fosse is actually pretty smart "for a woman". Also Markham claims that he can't comprehend how a guy like Spootswoode could be attracted by "the empty-headed butterfly type"...Um, excuse me, first of all Margaret Odell is a canary and not a butterfly, and second, just because she's a show girl doesn't mean she's empty-headed. There were also some things that were a bit far-fetched (no spoilers), but overall it was a pretty okay crime novel.
Although Philo Vance was, it seems, a major inspiration for Ellery Queen and other detectives he fails for me to live up to his reputation upon rereading. When I first read the books I was amused and distracted by the picture of times gone by and behaviours no longer seen. Rereading the books years later I notice how gossamer thin is the mystery at the heart of this book. Had the police been even minimally competent the murderer would have been discovered before Vance had time to show off his special skills.
If you have seen an episode of SVU, then this book will offer absolutely no surprises for you. I saw every major "twist" coming at least a chapter ahead of time. And this book was worse than a Scooby-Doo episode in repeatedly drawing attention to the actual culprit with many a throwaway, "Well, there is no way it could be that guy" and "I'm pretty sure we can rule him out."If you are a fan of the murder mystery genre -- of which I am decidedly one; Agatha Christie all day, every day -- you may enjoy seeing an early version of a familiar story. It's well-written and, though there are no real shockers, the puzzle of the crime scene offers enough intrigue to make it passably enjoyable.The atmospheric New-York-in-the-20's vibe is very fun and, obviously, feels much more authentic than similar modern stories written as historical fiction.Now that I think about it, my above comparison to Law & Order is very apt. This book is enjoyable, but forgettable, the literary equivalent of background noise while doing the dishes.A much wordier version of this review has been posted on my blog: http://familiarcreatures.wordpress.co...
It's a simple murder mystery, but the contemporary reviewers raved about it, so I feel okay giving it four stars. I really like Van Dine's writing style. He writes well and clearly. He wasn't writing just to make money, and in fact, I read that he was sick and started writing books to occupy his time while bedridden. So it was for his own entertainment, not just to become a popular author. Anyway, I also like the character of Vance. I know some people on here don't like him, and I get why: he's droll, seemingly stereotypical, and kind of a pompous jerk. But I find him to be layered and interesting because he only wants people to think he's the above, but he's really a deeper character and takes things more seriously than he gives off.The story itself was decent. I was intrigued by the mystery and wanted to keep reading. In fact, I read more than half the book today. I just wanted to know who killed "the Canary," and I've gotten yelled at by more than one person for looking ahead, so since I "couldn't" do that, I had to hurry up and finish the book. I was disappointed by the revelation of the murderer, which was sort of obvious, but it wasn't too bad. At least there were interesting explanations for the biggest puzzles of the novel. I like the way the pieces were revealed slowly, and the last page had a twist, so that was good.I would definitely recommend this book to mystery lovers. I own another Philo Vance book, and I'm looking forward to reading it. At least I know that I'll get a good story with an interesting amateur sleuth and a decent mystery to figure out. It reminds me of Bradley's Flavia de Luce series: you either love Flavia, or you hate her, but once you decide that you love her, you want to keep reading about her.
Second in the Philo Vance series of mysteries. Very similar to Ellery Queen. Actress, the "Canary," is murdered in locked room and there is no way anyone could have done it because of the person who sits in the lobby of her apartment complex. There are four men who had the motive but none seemed to have had the means. Vance, utilizing luck and music and deduction, proves how and who did the murder. Would have been a five star but the main two characters talk in such a ridiculous manner at times - will need to go back and look up dozens of words they used.
"The Canary Murder Case" takes you to an earlier time, when men dressed in elegant suits for dinner and everyone smoked with no fear. Philo Vance, though the main character, is not a detective. Instead he is a rich, bored dilettante who is a friend of the District Attorney. The DA takes his friend to the scene of the murder of a stage star, the Canary. Vance solves it using "psychological deduction." It is a locked room mystery.The book is fun to read even set as it is in the early 1920s..
Although I do not enjoy this Author as much as my dear Rex Stout or even Ellery Queen, I must say that this was an ingenious novel! I guessed the culprit at about two thirds of the book, but I had not guessed all the intricate details of the proof. As for the ending, it was to be expected when Vance incited Markham to allow the culprit some time... All in all, I enjoy these Philo Vance adventures, although he is a bit convinced intellectually... Maria Carmo,Lisbon 13 February 2017.
This volume contains 3 novels:- Queen Lucia: An extremely funny story about a self-proclaimed leader of Riseholme's social life, Lucia. Although she claims to have many talents, among which speaking Italian, playing the piano etc., she has in fact none. And sometimes this shows, leading to hilarious scenes as when she was asked to translate for a visiting Italian composer. ****- Miss Mapp: I disagree with Keith Carabine who wrote the introduction to the volume: I find 'Miss Mapp', while different in concept, even better than 'Queen Lucia'. Reads like P. G. Wodehouse, but with more elaborate plots. *****- Lucia in London: How Lucia took on a bigger job, namely London social life. The author used a clever device, the 'Luciaphiles' to keep the protagonist from embarrassment. I thought it might be more of the same as 'Queen Lucia' but the story is subtly different and had me roaring with laughter again. *****
Vol.1 - Queen Lucia, Miss Mapp, & Lucia in London. Mapp is a very different character from Lucia: the latter's social pretensions bring a wry smile; the former's quite a nasty piece of work (wouldn't want her in my social circle)- though she always gets her come-uppance. Queen Lucia probably the most amusing. Shall I acquire Vol.2? Probably not..
Stacey, thanks so much for recommending this. I have just read the trilogy and thoroughly enjoyed them. In particular I liked the Lucia books as she is such an amusing and fascinating character. HAve you read any of the others?
I've read and re-read the Mapp and Lucia books for 40 years. They're my 'go-to' books for escape, relaxation and humour. My children grew up seeing these books always on my bedside table - and they're still there. They were so used to seeing me read them that when I met my daughter in Rye at the beginning of a 6 week trip through Europe, she arranged with the local Benson expert to give us a walking tour of 'Mapp and Lucia's Tilling' - even though it was off season and we were the only ones on the tour. Benson describes Tilling so well that when I finally got to Rye for the first time, I knew every street and lookout.
I keep this book by my bed always. I've read it multiple times, and I feel like I know the characters as well as I know my neighbors. This volume contains Books 1-3 of the "Lucia" Stories. How to describe? One of the FUNNIEST books I've ever read, certainly. It relates the tales of Lucia, a self-important, pretentious middle-aged poseur who strives to be the queen bee of her little village, Riseholme. She insists on speaking butchered Italian (but knows only about 15 words -- when the Italian opera singer comes to town and they seat her next to Lucia at a luncheon, embarrassment ensues), always has to be the best at everything, and orders her best friend Georgie (a confirmed bachelor with an interest in petitpoint embroidery) around as her minion. They are always getting into sticky situations and trying to preserve their top standing in the neighborhood. She does everything for show, nothing because she actually means it. Everyone else in the village is totally onto her, but she lives with rose-colored glasses on and is convinced that everyone adores her.After you read this, read "Lucia Victrix" where Lucia meets a nemesis who's up to playing her dastardly games of oneupmanship, Miss Elizabeth Mapp.
It's a shame E.F. Benson only wrote 6 Lucia books! Good thing they are all available in 2 yummy volumes! Lucia and her archrival Ms Mapp are hands down two of the funniest, most malicious enemies to ever see print. Multiple rereadings of this book have not made it any less funny!
I feel this should count as 3 towards my Reading Challenge since it's an omnibus edition!
I've read two of the three novels in this volume, and enjoyed them well enough, mainly. The agressively trivial proceedings can start to pall, and the comic energy can start to flag, especially as they drag to their conclusions. But there's plenty of good fun to be had, even if it isn't long before I start wanting to move on to something a little more substantial.
Love these books by E.F. Benson! The characters are so conniving and funny - the gaps between their social manners and what's really on their mind are what makes this an entertaining treasure. Enjoy, enjoy, enjoy!
Witty, cheeky, very British. Hurrah!
I did really like it but it left an unpleasant feeling, these Mapp and Lucia bitches are malicious, horrible people. Although the humour caused by their desire to be superior to everyone else was amusing, especially when they would get their comeuppance as they constantly did, still it was a little TOO nasty and spiteful for me to smile fondly at their foibles, if you can really call them that. Great fun but I do not feel the need to read Volume 2. How strange to rate a book four stars but to realise you don't want to read any more like it!
It was slow going at first, but I love the comedy of errors and how simultaneously genteel and backbiting they were. I would read more!EDIT - If you like "Keeping up Appearances" it's along the same vein. Less slapstick, more bite!
Satirical portraits of society in provincial England in the 1920s. Just love the characters--Lucia and Miss Mapp, of course, but also Georgie and Olga and Diva. Very diverting following them around and "listening in". E.F. Benson is brilliant!
LOVED IT!
If you live in Riseholme, England, you are a minion of Lucia (pronounced the Italian way), the Queen of Art and Culture. She controls the social network and has raised the poor little town to a degree of culture it has never known before. Any social event MUST have Lucia play the first movement of The Moonlight Sonata (she doesn't play the other two because they don't have the same 'mood' although her best friend Georgie knows they are actually too difficult for her!) and provide the requisite communal sigh (denoting the sheer beauty of it). If music is provided (and it had better never be a grammaphone!), Lucia will sit in her "appreciative" pose of elbow on knee, leaning forward, chin resting on hand, eyes slightly unfocused so that you know she is concentrating on the beauty of the music. In short she is a small town tyrant. But a loveable one. In the first story in this edition, Queen Lucia, Lucia's reign is suddenly threatened by the arrival of an opera diva who, of course not understanding the dear inhabitants of Riseholme and their tastes, institutes free-for-all "play" evenings, plays music on the grammaphone and threatens Lucia's dominance in every way. Will Lucia be able to survive? Will she be replaced? Will Riseholme lose its cultural magnificence?In the second story, Lucia in London, Lucia's husband's aunt dies and throws them into deep mourning (although they haven't seen her in the 7 years she's been in the asylum)AND into the ownership of a house in a nice section of London. Lucia has never made it a secret of her distaste of London and its hustle-bustle, mindless actions, etc. When she visits it, she always longs to return to "dear Riseholme" with its quiet and its culture. But now it appears that she is determined to move to London. Will she really go? Will she decided to stay? What will happen to the Hurst, her house in Riseholm? And who will take over the social programming?Lucia's neighbors are a wonderful lot as well. Georgie (or Georgino, since they MUST speak Italian!) is not married, lives by himself, accompanies Lucia in her piano duets and embroiders. Mrs. Quantock, short and round, moves from one fad to the next - spiritualism, yoga, onion soup diets, you name it. Mrs. Antrobus who can't hear a thing in spite of her enormous ear trumpet. Mrs. Weston who rides all day in a bath chair, pushed by one servant or another at a breakneck speed around the town. And others too numerous to mention.Another story on a different heroine, Miss Mapp, is included as well. Miss Mapp is around 40 and has her eye on the Major who lives just across the street. In more way than one. Miss Mapp has a bow window in her garden room from which she can watch the entire street to catch someone doing something he/she ought not. She is worried that her servants are using her phone for their own purposes, she MUST be the one who starts gossip spinning around town, can NEVER be wrong about what's happening in the town, and never hesitates to explain the the Major and the Captain how they must lead their lives.In short, these two ladies typify English small town life between the Great War and the Great Depression. The humor is sharp, the characters all complicit, and the writing sweet. E. F. Benson is well worth reading.
Hilarious! A wonderful portrayal of small-town snobbery in the 1920s. Refined and lady-like, Lucia will nevertheless go to any lengths to assert her supremacy over her rivals - and no trick is too underhand for her (including stealing everyone else's good ideas!). Yet, despite her affectations and devious tricks, she enlivens her community. She's the sort of person you miss when she's not there, although her presence can be highly irritating to all. A wonderful read. Although written some time ago, you can still recognise the character types.Added information: the town called Tilling that appears in later books is actually Rye in Sussex. The author E.F. Benson lived there in Lamb House - which also housed Henry James at one point. What a literary heritage! (You can get inside to see the ground floor and garden as it is run by the National Trust).
Deliciously satirical and entertaining observations of the human condition!
Utterly divine and not at all tarsome.
Slow starting. Didn't like the characters at first. Thought the cultural snobbery was laid on too thick. Then the characters started to grow on me. But the back and forth one-upmanship just grew tedious. Finished it but don't think I will read anymore in the series.
Actually, gave up partway through Miss Mapp - getting a bit samey
A passionate, poorly argued hodge-podge on the anti-enlightenment trends of the interwar French intelligentsia that gathered around men like Charles Maurras and L' Action Française. The thesis is interesting -- though not entirely persuasive -- but the book is better known than read. The Introduction is written in the style of some sort of Straussian cant and is a complete waste of time.
one of the most prophetic secular books ever.
Even though the first edition of this book was in 1927, which can seem ancient, but the main issues that it adresses are still alive today, and are still a problem. Intellectuals are prone to politics and their own interests, the majority of people does not think beyond their primary needs and interests ... Who is going to protect humanity from its own stupidity, greed, its dangerous narrow national interests and wrong choices? Who is going to think outside the box, and want something moral and truthful and meaningful for all? Who - if not intellectuals? The author sometimes repeats himself, but this is still a very good and important book. It makes you think!
Truthfully, this book does not say very much. What has been said here, if it were not a work of history, could have been argued in all of 20 pages. This is not to say that what is has said is not relevant or important. However, there is a slight oddity in that the very thesis of the book seems to fail at its own goal. If this book is reported as a work of a 'clerc', then it is a failure. Thus, I choose to not see it as such, but rather an interested (as opposed to disinterested, as the book would argue) warning to the intellectual.The warning is as follows: 'The society of intellectuals ("clercs") should never stoop to the goals of nationalism, fascism, or hatred towards those of property. As soon as the society (or individuals of that society) does so, it gives up any plausible attention to transcendental truths.' Here I agree.However, the way in which the author organizes this argument has difficulty. For example, the author claims that it is not necessarily the goal of a clerc that makes one fail, but rather how this work is used that makes it sufficiently treasonous. However, if a clerc intends to be used by political "realists" or for practical policy, it is necessarily a failure. The problem here is that it is claimed reasonable to place blame on the intellectual for their social interpretation regardless of their goal. If this were the case, then Spinoza, a clerc which the author to be a shining example, would be a failure under interpretation of post-modern religion. Spinoza's ethics is often proposed as a method of establishing a social anarchy of post-modern experience. This is not disinterested!I wondered if the author would clarify more in detail how to address these interpretations, but he never does. Instead he resorts to rants about interested others. I feel this book leaves its arguments vaguely unfinished, and instead rests its case on historical failures and predictions, such as grand wars, which could have been explained away by other means, and often were.Still, there is something respectable about pointing this out, and it would seem to me that in a modern world, this is the kind of argument that is often offered in opposition to scientifically and ethically relativist postmodernist propositions. It raises questions about how one presents their work as an academic and whether or not it is truly a theoretical gain, or if it is rather solely interested in political power under the banner of popular ethical quips. It oddly enough, seems to offer the beginnings of an explanation for why the alt-right and antifa might be considered equally nationalistic, fascistic, and ethically relativistic in the modern political world. Unfortunately, it does not do so an an sufficiently metaphysically useful way. So one cannot use this work as a clerc, one can only use the questions it raises.
Miss Maple such a smart cookie for her age.
What can I say?! I am a total sucker for a good mystery and no one supplies that (nor the solution) quite as satisfyingly as A. C.
Miss Marple made her debut in this very short story. The Tuesday night club is a group of friends including Miss Marple’s egotistical, author nephew and a retired head of Scotland Yard. The after dinner talk turns to unsolved mysteries. Before the rest of the group really knows what’s hit them, Miss Marple has solved the crime and returned to her knitting. Quick and fun read!
Pretty sure this is what I read. I found it online. Even if it was a short story IN a short story, this is the first one I actually solved!
The first short story featuring Miss Marple. It's a very simple short story, but with a very good plot. Group of 6 friends, one tells a true crime story and the others try to figure out how it was done. A great introduction to the wonderful character of Miss Marple.
Miss Marple's debut! Loved it!
Not much good.
This is a fun fast read that has Miss Marple giving us the scoop on a murder by poisoning.
Great intro to Miss Marple
Here we meet Miss Marple, surrounded by bright young things and serious older ones. Almost overlooked in the sudden idea to form the Tuesday Night Club, she knits away and solves the mystery, having seen the red flag as the story was told and recognised who was the culprit and why. There is also a satisfying parallel with events in St Mary Mead. It is a beautifully paced and controlled short story with a mystery within the story. Very brief and concise story-telling and characters sketched with a few quick strokes of the pen.
Miss Marple: the Complete Short StoriesRating System:* couldn't finish, ** wouldn't recommend, *** would recommend, **** would read again, ***** have read again
I doubt you will find this on the bookshelves of children's libraries today. I found it stuck in with the other great Faulkner tomes in my local library. A short little read---if you will, a Southern Alice in Wonderland. Of course it is brilliant; isn't everything by Faulkner brilliant? This was the only children's book he ever wrote and it was personally written and bound for an eight year old for her birthday and never meant to be published. It is rare and out of print--you can still procure it on the Kindle, but that rather defeats the purpose, no? A rare copy of it is very expensive. Can't wait for my kids to get their first taste of the magic prose of Faulkner via this book.
a short but good fairy tale that caught my attention for half an hour and fulfilled my need for some magic.
I love this simply for being thrown into a little Faulkner fantasy world.
Joyless, mean, boring.
Quite a short book. I managed to read it within a half hour give or take. I've never read books by the Nobel-Prize winning American author William Faulkner before. So, I decided to give it a try by picking up this short fairy-tale like story "The Wishing Tree". A nice read but mediocre at best though. Faulkner is best known for his stream of consciousness writing style in books like The Sound and the Fury and As I Lay Dying. He also wrote hundreds of short stories too. The best part of this book, in my opinion, is the middle part of the book. I neither like or deplore the ending. An acceptable ending, that is to say.
”On the night before your birthday if you get into bed left foot first and turn the pillow over before you go to sleep, anything might happen”So begins the magical, whimsical tale The Wishing Tree by none other than the great William Faulkner. Dulcie, a young girl, wakes on her birthday to find a mysterious stranger in her room who whisks her, the other children, the maid Alice, and a 92 year old man away on a magical adventure full of wishes come true. This rare book is actually quite good as far as short children’s stories go and shows Faulkner in a unique form as he wrote it as a gift to the 8 year old daughter of a friend. Who knew Faulkner wrote a children’s novel? I had never heard of this, so, Faulkner being a major idol of mine, I was surprised and delighted when I found it at random on the wrong shelf of The Dawn Treader Used Bookstore in Ann Arbor, Mi this past weekend in perfect condition, dust jacket and all, for under $10. I hastily picked it up and read the jacket to make sure that this actually was THE William Faulkner as it seemed unlikely he had written such a book. This story, weighing in at only 82 pages, existed as just one copy that belonged to little Victoria until it was slightly edited, garnished with the beautiful illustrations of Don Bolognese in 1967 and received an actual publication by Random House. It was written in 1927, which places it sometime around the time he wrote his second novel Mosquitoes.The Wishing Tree is very playful and funny and shows a different side of Faulkner than is commonly seen. However, it is distinctly the words of the master, as the opening paragraph will show:She was still asleep but she could feel herself rising up out of sleep, just like a balloon: it was like she was a goldfish in a round bowl of sleep, rising and rising through the warm waters of sleep to the top. And then she would be awakeAlso, the servant woman speaks in dialect which shows off what Faulkner would polish in later novels. Alice often speaks as such: ”The one that run off on me and lef’ me payin’ a lawyer to fin’ out what the gov’ment down with him. Him and his army! I’ll war him: he ain’t never seen no war like what I can aggrovoke.” As with all his adult works (strange I would ever have to make that distinction while talking about Faulkner), there are underlying themes about the post-civil war South to be found in this story amidst the magic and wishing. This book is perfect for any collection of Faulkner, or for any fan of Faulkner who would like to see a different early side of him. This works for me but the real excitement I felt when finding this was knowing that I can read it to my daughter when she is older and introduce her father’s favorite author at a much younger age, seeing as I am not subjecting something like Absalom! on her when she gets to be 8. I'm not quite sure how to rate a book like this but I'm going to say 4/5
A very christian morality story that feels outdated to me, and contains way too many stereotypes.
So, I visited the US Embassy Library and I had about an hour to kill, I found this book hidden among the other huge tomes by Faulkner, the book jacket description caught my attention: a rare story by the author, with various handmade editions, never before published, it was also a 1964 first edition hardcover book, and illustrated. To my dismay I found it was treated badly by whoever read it before me, as it had writing all over it, albeit with pencil... but some pages had basically the whole story rewritten in translated Spanish (it made it senseless). In any case, it was an enjoyable story, one I would have surely loved as a kid. I really liked the idea of a wishing tree, although it might seem cliched, it is written with great imagination.
4.5/5 This little children's book was so much fun to read. It was so magical and whimsical. You can see the influence of philosophy and religion hidden every now and then. But it is also just a mix of magic and nonsense.
Magical . Unboring . Great .
This is an odd little novella, and I waffled between 3 and 4 stars. Imagine if you will "Alice in Wonderland" retold by Faulkner, and you might come close to this book. I had no idea that Faulkner had writen a children's book, but once I found out, I headed to my local library to check this one out. It is a quick, and slightly disjointed read. If you are a Faulkner fan it's well worth a look.
Although I'm not in any way familiar with the VHS version or whatever the hell that thing is talking about, so I'm just scribleing down a review of the short yarn I read in my falling apart edition of 'The Snows of Kilaminjaro and Other Stories'. It's basically featureing the one and only Nick Adams (as an adult) and two men who come into a cafe he's in with consipered murder for a boxer in their hearts. The Killers is unusually minimalistic, even for Papa. And it does take away from the quality of the story, and there are indisputeably better efforts by Hemingway. However, there are certain themes within The Killers such as chaos and the blantant failure of parents who raised their kids in the Lost Generation; this themetic elements mixed with style make this an interesting story in if you look at it from a highly artistically ambigous perspective. For face value though, this story is mildly impoverished, and it could be better.
Not much fun. Some killers talk for a while, using spare prose. I think that's the point.
Simple and straight to the point in typical Hemingway fashion.
Well, it's homework and I just don't quite get the point.
I feel like these characters would be perceived as annoying or cliched by most people. To me, they were so ridiculous, I could only find them hilarious. They are so overdone, it's fantastic.
It's Hemingway. Put it's simplistic, annoying, idiotic and racist too. Everything I just don't like in a book. I know that sometimes the characters aren't good enough. And in this book they were all bad. I'd go for better short stories, had I known this wasn't good enough. One star.
This was a wonderful collection of Wilde's works. It included 5 of his plays and some critical essays. I found the plays to be quite witty and most enjoyable. I especially loved The Importance of Being Earnest which I also saw as a Broadway production at the Spoleto Festival in Charleston SC. An Ideal Husband was another favorite though I found all of his plays quite entertaining. Wilde’s play on words and his portrayal of Victorian society really showcases his genius. He had a gift for revealing the hypocrisies of fashionable society. This book also contained two interviews with Wilde at the peak of his career and some of his critical writings where he discusses the nature of art. This was a worthwhile read that gave me insight into this famous or infamous writer.
I did not read the whole book, I merely chose it because it contained a good handful of Wilde's poetry, plays and also his essays and fairy tales. I intended to flip through it and read what interested me. I read two of his poems; "The Ballad of Reading Gaol" and "The Sphinx", because the subjects were intriguing to me. I had already read The Picture of Dorian Gray.I thoroughly enjoyed reading the two poems, they reminded me of some old Icelandic poems I have read with the way they danced and swayed in their rhythm. His rhyming had the gorgeous twist of having an educational value to me, someone who learned English as a second language. It taught me the proper way to pronounce some words I wasn't sure about before. I'll read more of Wilde's works in the future.
Five stars on the prose alone. Very elegant.
The Best Known Works of Oscar Wilde by Oscar Wilde (1940)
I am loving this book.
a twisted, tasty treat.
I've always liked Wilde, but I was shocked by just how much I loved this collection. "The Importance of Being Earnest" in particular is a work of comic genius. However, reading his plays one after another, I was struck by the common thread between them; Hidden behind all the wit is a sense of compassion for human fallibility that was completely unexpected. It's such a beautiful sentiment, I find it a pity that everyone tends to be too dazzled by the cleverness and charm to notice.
What a writer! What a thinker!! Somehow he always says the opposite of what you would've expect, but somehow it always makes even more sense and is truer.I loved The Importance of Being Earnest and An Ideal Husband. 5 stars love. That's rare. Didn't like as much Salomé, Lady Windermere's Fan and A Woman of No Importance. Can't wait to read more though and be surprised again by his vision of the world and society.I think I discovered in Oscar Wilde a new favorite writer of mine!
A gripping, page-turning novel of ideas!
What the hell was I thinking not reading this before?
I LOVE OSCAR WILDE DETAILED AND CAREFUL WRITTINGI ENJOY THE PEACE HE WRITES WITH AND HIS KNLOLEDGEOF HUMAN DESIRES.I GOT SCARED WHEN READING DORIAN GRAY.BUT THIS FANTASY IS AS CURRENT AS FAUSTO.
I loved this book. A real insight into the evil men/ women do and how the soul shows the wear. Whether the external face reveals the truth or not, our conscience haunts us. Wilde was a brilliant writer, witty and wise.
Compilation of all his major works. Must read "Picture of Dorian Gray." Witty, intelligent, amusing. His theory of aesthetics is tantalizingly subversive, so be careful!Been semi-looking for "De Profundis." If anyone has, please lend me!
Oscar Wilde nos demuestra lo terrible que pueden llegar a ser las personas, el dolor que causamos, los estereotipos, lo egoístas y ególatras que podemos llegar a ser, no cabe duda que con estas narraciones te pondrás a reflexionar en todo momento, por eso 5 estrellas.
Good plays, characters that come alive.
Intersting way to express how the events in our life shape our character. Oscar Wilde is a masterful author. I really enjoyed this book.
A happy story of a rowdy Quaker girl, in Colonial America.
I kind of feel like reading through the Newbery is like hiking the Appalachian Trail. If you only stick to the white blazed trail you’re gonna see some cool sights, but in order to see a lot of the breathtaking views, you have to take some side trails, sometimes even a whole day’s hike away. Yeah, it’s going to make your whole AT hike a bit longer, but it’s going to also make it more memorable because you saw that amazing view that you wouldn’t have seen if you had just stuck to the trail.If you just read the gold-stickered Newbery winners, of course you’re going to read some good books, but you’re not going to get a clear picture of what Children’s lit was like at that time. You’re going to miss the Charlotte’s Webs and the Because of Winn Dixies. Lots of the time, the real gems are the honor winners or even the books unmentioned by the ALA Youth Media Awards (Wonder and Okay for Now anyone?) With this in mind, I’ve decided that I want to try to read at least one honor from each decade. Hopefully, one that I’ve heard of or read before, or one that has gotten great reviews. For the 20′s I decided to pick up Downright Dencey by Caroline Dale Snedeker.I picked it because I had read somewhere that Beverly Cleary really loved this book growing up, and I’m super glad that I did. If I had just read through the winners as planned, I would have totally missed this treasure of a novel. First, let me say that I have been really disappointed and a little confused by the winners of the 1920′s so far. With the exception of Dr. Dolittle, maybe, they have all been kind of dry, boring, and not at all kid friendly. There were two that I will probably hate for the rest of my life (The Dark Frigate and Smoky the Cow Horse). I was confused because I know that I’ve read kids books published before 1920 that I really liked. (Little Women, Anne of Green Gables, all of Nesbit’s books) So why are most of the 1920′s Newbery winners terrible? Then I realized that most of my favorite pre-1922 books were written by women, and for some reason, not a single woman won the Newbery in the first decade. A few got honors, such as Dencey, but not one woman won the gold. I don’t know if it’s just outright sexism, or if the committees were confused by the man on the medal, and thought that it had to go to a man, but yeah. No women won, which is a shame, because, even though I haven’t finished Gay Neck yet, the book that won in 1928, I can promise you, it’s probably not nearly as good as Dencey.(maybe I’ll eat my words next week, but I really doubt it) Downright Dencey is better than any of the previous Newbery winners, including Dr. Dolittle. The setting is terrific. Not only did it make me want to live in 1812ish Nantucket, but it kind of made me want to go live in a Quaker community now. The thing that upset me so much about Smoky the Cow Horse, the narrator’s contempt for the “half-breed” Mexican, is totally reversed in this book. There is an interracial character, who the community as a whole despises , but not only does the author redeem him, she makes him a focal point of the story in a positive way. It makes me feel better about the past that there were people like Caroline Snedeker out there to balance out the Will Jameses.The language might be a little tough for some kids, since the Quakers had to use Thees and thous, but I got over that really quickly. The only question for me is, can I get my students to read this book? I’m definitely going to try!Next Up: Gay Neck, the Story of a Pigeon (for real this time)
I read the first chapter of this with a kind of horror, and then rapidly changed my mind. I quite enjoyed this book, and got quite involved. It’s a shame this is not more wildly circulated, because I’d say this is a quality Newbery medal winner. (I had to read it through interlibrary loan. I couldn’t find it anywhere else, and it was one of the hardest 1920s Newbery books for me to locate, and also one of my 1920s favorites.)I loved how little Dencey/Dionis has certain Quaker rules drilled into her, and she believes if she breaks them she will go to hell. And yet she still feels compelled to break them, because her inner humanity is compelling her to do good for another. The lessons are subtle in their strength. And the relationship between Dencey and Jetsam is pretty sweet, including how it develops over the years. My only qualm is that now I have to go find the sequel.
I didn't expect to enjoy this so much! Beverly Cleary lists it as one of her favorites while growing up. She said, "Downright Dencey, I think is still a fine book, and I'm very sorry it's out of print, but I suspect it's because there is a character who is referred to as 'Injun Jill.' But Downright Dencey is really a very fine book." Even knowing that, I still didn't expect to get so drawn into the story and to care about the characters as much as I did! I agree with Beverly Cleary that it is really "a very fine book." I was cheering for Jetsam as he learned how to read and as he searched for Dencey when she was lost in the storm. I was also very interested to learn a bit about the Quaker faith. I didn't realize that they really do have meetings where everyone sits and is quiet unless moved upon by the Spirit. I soon got used to the Quaker use of "thee" and just enjoyed the setting, the story, and especially the characters. This is a very fine piece of historical fiction.
This was one of the better older Newbery books that I read. It is simple but interesting. Kind of reminds me of Little Women (although not as good).
As other reviewers have said, if you can get past the racial epithets it really is an enjoyable read. Lots of interesting information about Nantucket."Here was to be seen, as in a diminishing glass, a tiny New England, delicately outlined--intensified--in a word, islanded. Here were the New England character and hardihood, its God-fearing and mental eagerness, yet all sensitivity changed, individualized, so that they became Nantucket and no other. Instead of the stony fields of New England, the Nantucketers plowed the wide ocean, and at this period of their history, their harvest was gathered from pole to pole. By its industry, this low, sandy island, eighteen miles long, produced enough whale oil to light half the cities of the world, including London. Clearly defined smallness on the one hand, world wideness on the other, made the Nantucket life different from all others."Of Nantucket being founded by a man escaping persecution from the Puritans in Massachusetts: "All Puritanism was a protest, but Nantucket was a protest against protest."Description of a cottage: "It was one of those tiny gray cots that can be glimpsed beyond the fluid rolling of the moors like loneliness made visible.""Wonderful times were those in the great basement kitchen of the Fair Street house, wonderful for a little girl to experience, and, in remembrance, a fragrance for the whole of her life. Big as a town hall, that kitchen was, with a broad fireplace to match. Always crowded, full of the vivid life that youngsters bring, as one brings into the warmth the invigorating air of a winter night."
I liked this Newbery book way more than I thought I would. Dencey is a Quaker girl on Nantucket, and her fiery spirit is of great concern to her pious mother. Dencey befriends Sam Jetsam, the local ragamuffin and Indian half-breed (as this book was published in 1927, American Indians are not portrayed in the greatest of lights–the perils of reading old, politically incorrect books) and teaches him to read, despite his bad manners and reluctance to trust anyone. Dencey is punished for spending time with the troublesome boy, but even that cannot keep her from doing what she sees as her duty, and eventually Sam becomes a part of the family.Dencey’s father is away at sea for much of the book, as are most of the Nantucket men, so Dencey’s mother is overly strict with her, but despite feeling that her mother doesn’t understand her and only seeing her father every couple of years, Dencey does her best to please God and do what she thinks is right. Despite having a temper not befitting a Quaker, she shows “love that transcends social boundaries,” as the back cover states. This book is sweet and very well written.*Read more on my blog: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...
This wonderful Newbery honor book from 1927 tells the story of a young Quaker girl named Dencey and her friendship with an outcast boy. Yes, the writing style is “old-fashioned” (more formal), but I didn’t find it off-putting at all. In fact, given the Quaker setting, it seemed to fit. I learned so much about Quaker beliefs and practice as well as the Nantucket whaling culture and what it meant for families (fathers absent for years at a time). The characters are so richly drawn. Recommended for anyone who loves historical fiction, New England, or just a good story! Now I’m off to track down the sequel, The Beckoning Road. . . .
I enjoyed this one a lot. One of my favorite classic children’s books. There is some major of-its-time description of a Native American character. But it’s still a lovely read. [Oct. 2008]
Another older YA historical fiction. Interesting view into Quaker life. It takes place on Nantucket during the whaling years-which is a sure-fire attention grabber for me.
This is one of the best books I've ever read, hands down. It's a favorite of mine and has been for almost a decade. I will never stop loving it. Snedeker wrote one of the most touching, powerful, beautiful stories ever told about love, trust, and faith. Anyone who is interested in history or romance or religion should make this a must-read.
If you can get past casually thrown out epithets like "nigger-face" and "Portugee", the low opinion of Native Americans, and the relentlessly crushing guilt that guides these Nantucket Quakers' everyday lives, you'll find a pretty good story of compassion, belonging, adventure, and love.
Lovely and elegant novel for children and adults. Publishing in 1946, Downright Dencey was written at a time when authors sought to write great literature for children and adults. Excellent historical novel with wonderful characters and setting.
Loved it!
I really liked this book. Great how the characters view of each other changed and grew through out the story. Even a surprise on how Sam changed his view of Jill. I liked it better than the 1928 honor winner.
This is a review from Michael Andre Bernstein, The New Republic: I have added a quote at the end of the review, to give you a flavor of lessons contained in this book which could apply to one's understanding of, say, Ukraine today.Every few decades a book is published that shapes Jewish consciousness. One thinks of Wiesel's Night or Levi's Survival in Auschwitz. But in 1927, years before these works were written, Joseph Roth (1894-1939) composed The Wandering Jews. In these stunning dispatches written when Roth was a correspondent in Berlin during the whirlwind period of Weimar Germany, he warned of the false comforts of Jewish assimilation, laid bare the schism between Eastern and Western Jews, and at times prophesied the horrors posed by Nazism. The Wandering Jews remains as vital today as when it was first published. "Only in the East do people live who are unconcerned with their 'nationality' in the Western European sense. They speak several languages, are themselves the product of several generations of mixed marriages, and fatherland for them is whichever country happens to conscript them. The Armenians of the Caucasus were for a long time neither Russians nor Armenians; they were Muslims living in the Caucasus, and yet they furnished the czars of Russia with their most loyal bodyguards. Nationality is a Western concept. It was an invention of Western scholars, who have struggled to explain it." 1937
This is an account of the Jews in Europe (and briefly the US) in the period between the wars. Given the subject matter it is an understandably angry book, but over c140 pages it doesn’t let up and consequently starts to lose its impact. Roth is always on the side of the downtrodden and oppressed and strongly champions the Jews of Eastern Europe. In particular he provides interesting anecdotes and insights about life in the Shtetl and a very human understanding of the sheer grind of having to get by and survive in Anti-Semitic societies.This is well worth reading not least because the subject matter is so important, but “What I Saw: Reports from Berlin 1920-33” is a better book. Both are translated by the superb Michael Hofmann. If you’ve not read any Roth before then start with the novels, which I strongly recommend.
A brilliant angry little book. A must for anyone interested in Jewish European history and thought, though no doubt very dated since written before the Holocaust. Still, filled with insights into the relationships that Europe, both East and West, had with it's Jewish populations, and the relationship Jews had with the European countries that they lived in. Which is much too simple an explanation, since Roth by no means typifies the Jewish population of the time, I think around 1927, but instead explores the complexity they felt in religion, nationality, identity, and anti-semitism. Roth is understandably angry, and if knew what was to happen once could imagine the angry becoming absolute despair. The angry comes through in his prose, and I found myself very moved over many parts of it. Highly recommended.
The Jewish communities of Eastern Europe suffered centuries of oppression and discrimination before being wiped out entirely during the cataclysm of World War II. When Roth wrote this book, the Holocaust still some years away. But he still seemed to grasp that he was documenting a world that was on the brink of annihilation, taking the time to carefully record the habits, beliefs and lifestyles fo these communities in sympathetic detail. And indeed, world of Jewish dockworkers, poor tailors and devout Eastern European Hasidic villages is so far gone now that it seems hard to even imagine just a few decades later.Roth is harsh towards what he sees as an arrogant Western civilization that abominates the Eastern European Jews and holds them in contempt. For his part, he sees much to value in these people and their simple ways. The mentality of the poor, coarse, yet large-hearted Slavic Jewish peasants is contrasted favorably with the repressed animality of Western Europeans, of whom Roth himself was of course one. Given the massive changes that have occurred among Jews around the world over the past decades, its interesting to recall how different attitudes were not long ago, when many Jews were considered by the West to be an uncivilized other. When these communities were forced to become refugees due to pogroms and war, the world did all it could to hold them at bay, while scarcely bothering to hide their contempt for them and their culture. They wanted nothing to do with them and were content to see them die quietly in their misery, far out of sight. It is not hard to see echoes of this arrogant attitude today in the response to the waves of Syrians and Iraqis fleeing war to unwelcoming Western shores,The segment on immigration to America also notes vividly how, for once, Jews got to benefit from their race by being subsumed into a larger racial category of "white." As newly-minted white people, they were placed in a novel hierarchy that saw them no longer at the bottom of the social hierarchy, a space which was occupied in America by Black Americans, who Roth describes as "more Jewish than the Jews" in their oppression. Its an interesting glimpse into how new categories of oppression ended up offering a new opportunity for Eastern European Jews, though it came at the expense of the local Black population. Its also a sobering reminder of how the new world of the United States made and unmade entirely new categories of people, including thriving and honored Jewish communities of a type which have seldom survived in Europe. The status of immigrants in America has always, often tragically, placed them above Black Americans in the hierarchy, although I would argue that the category of "white" that was offered to Jewish emigres does not hold for many new immigrants today, no matter how some of them may still misguidedly strive for it.This book is a crie de coeur that called on the world to pay attention to the suffering of the Eastern European Jews and to cease its bigotry against them before its too late. As Roth poignantly describes, this bigotry existed not just among gentiles, but among assimilated Western European Jews who were were tempted to look askance at their backwards "cousins from Lodz," in an attempt to fit in better within their own societies. As time showed, trying to differentiate themselves from their backwards kin did not do much to save German and Austrian Jews in the end. It is a worthwhile reminder to Muslim communities today not to countenance the bigotry of those who would attack conservative Muslims while claiming exception for their assimilated, "good" co-religionists.
My son has become suddenly interested in his Jewish roots and has been asking me a lot of questions about his heritage. I don’t have many answers, having been raised in a secular household, even though I did have a bar mitzvah. I can’t even say why I chose this rite of Jewish passage, except to say it wasn’t because of the money, as everyone including my parents thought. The thing about my son is that according to Talmudic law he’s not Jewish, having only a Jewish father, not a Jewish mother. But according to Talmudic law I’m not a Jew, having been surgically circumcised in the hospital and not with a ceremonial bris, even if both my parents are Jews. I think my son’s curiosity is because he’s infatuated by a Jewish girl. It’s lead him astray. He’s been telling me things he’s researched online, like that Ashkenazi Jews are proportionately more intelligent than the population at large.It was about then that I sought to point him in the direction of more authoritative texts. I had the good fortune to have been reading THE WANDERING JEWS by Joseph Roth at the time and suggested it to him, being a history of the Eastern Jews from which our family has descended. He wasn’t interested. I was. These are my people. For a long time I’ve believed that my heritage is more Eastern European peasantry than observant Jew, considering my family is seeped in that area’s food, culture and language. Reading Roth both confirmed and contrasted that conclusion. In his reportage of a vanquished people he shows how Judaism is the glue that has held the homeless nation together. I recognize much of the lore if not the rituals. While I may not be observant, my bloodline is rich in the religion of my people. It’s my assimilation that will do what a genocide couldn’t accomplish.
Engaging, evocative, brief history.
This book goes well with "When Nietzsche Wept". I read this a few years ago, and it also gives a good idea of what late-19th-century/early-20th century life was like in Vienna. While "When Nietzsche Wept" is based on upper-middle-class life, "The Wandering Jews" includes good descriptions of what life was like for the poor and struggling.
Si se quiere comprender la Shoa, es un must. Si se quiere comprender de dónde venimos lo judíos laicos es un must. Si se quiere, si realmente se desea leer un buen ensayo, debes comprar este título. Lo acaban de reeditar en Acantilado.
A lyrical portrait of a vanished culture and people, Roth's The Wandering Jews, 1927 but I think revised and updated in 1939, approx, ranks closely with Heschel's The Earth Is the Lord's: The Inner World of the Jew in Eastern Europe, 1949. Roth chiefly addresses the causes and attitudes surrounding the rift between Eastern and Western Jews, one that still exists - along with mutual ignorance of one another's realities - although the worlds that supported this schism are gone. He presents the fact of Jewish literacy, nearly universal for two thousand years in contrast with common illiteracy in Europe, which is only completely eradicated now. He also unhinges one of my own assumptions - that Eastern European 'peasants all live under one roof with their pigs' - as absurd. It's an important argument, not only from the point of view of historical accuracy and fairness, but also for helping readers understand differences between large groups of Jews as environmental, the countryside and the town, feudalism and capitalism. He presents wonder rabbis and hucksters as men who moonlight as thinkers and poets. If there is a flaw in this book, it is Roth's neglect of women in his portrayal. When they appear as a subject, he treats them with respect, but the truth is they are not important to him, a slant most writers suffer from even in our 'enlightened' century. Most important, especially in the shadow of the Shoah that followed TWJ's publication, Roth says that antisemitism will not cease until the Jews' 'host countries' achieve their own internal freedom and dignity, which seems to me an immeasurably profound truth. It gives good reason for Jewish support of arts, ideas, and institutions that reach toward this goal. He also guesses ruefully, and so far accurately, that this achievement - freedom and dignity in the broader culture - is not likely to come into being any time soon.
An overview of Eastern European Jewry written in the late 1930s. An incredible poignant and melancholic glimpse of a society that exists no more and that has now vanished for ever. Roth has a wonderfully pithy and understated writing style. This book was as pleasurable to read as it was sad.
This is my first Gene Stratton-Porter, and not my last. I have a list of highly recommended books by this author.I'd really like to call this book a modern day fairy tale and as such, I think it is a really sweet, charming story. It's also a quick read.I like what this book has to say about love and what it has to say about boys and girls saving themselves and developing their virtues for the man/woman that they will marry.One part that was a little hard for me to follow was the amount of kisses and hugs. I grew up in a non-demonstrative family (maybe a little love-starved like Amaryllis) plus with the way times have changed it sounded a little strange. I wish I knew what my view of it would be if I had grown up differently and lived in a different time....Anyway, this book is a little hard to find, but if you can get your hands on it, give it a read!
Apparently I had a higher tolerance for sentimental goo when I last read this book 20 years ago. Imagine eating approximately 12 Krispy Kreme doughnuts, washing them down with a vat of hot chocolate, and then finishing up with a pan of brownies and you will be approaching the experience of reading this book. There is entirely too much kissing of "dimpled knees" in this book and way too many descriptions of begging for kisses like "hungry little birds beg for worms." There's only one scene where someone tenderly kisses every petal of a flower because it reminds him of his lost love but that is one scene too many, even for 1926. But I'll be $%^ if that manipulative ending didn't make me tear up a little, at least until the nauseating final kiss and final line, "John Guido, I am hungry again!" Now that I'm done with this book, I can go collect my eyeballs from where they have been continually rolling to all four corners of the room.
This is now thought to be Gene Statton-Porter's last book and it is lovely, almost a child's allegory.
I discovered this book quite by accident as a young girl. I was searching through the books on a shelf as a child and found this very old book, missing it's cover. I read it out of boredom since it didn't look very appealing to a 10 yr. old...it became the book that really started my love for reading. I still own that crumbling book and will always cherish it.
""The Magic Garden" (1927) was read to me by my mother. I later read it myself and to my children when they were young. For myself it was absolutely a "magical" experience. Gene Stratton-Porter takes you to places that are incredibly beautiful. "The Magic Garden" is an enchanted place that one does not want to leave. I can safely say that it is my favorite book of all time. I have always remembered the main character, Amaryllys, she was my favorite. This book was also my mother's favorite when she was a little girl. I have her copy from when she was young. It is timeless!!
It was pure luck when I found a Hutchinson edition of The Magic Garden. I'm still trying to Google whether my copy is a 1927 or a 1937 edition. I'm guessing my book is 79 or 89 years old now :)I've been devouring 20th century books as of late, and they always surprise me and fail to disappoint. I love seeing how different the past century was to this century. The Magic Garden is a sweet, short story (I finished it within 2 to 3 hours) about a young, wealthy girl--unloved and neglected--who runs away and meets an older boy; and both instantly finds love in each other. There are childish kissing and hugging scenes, which make me uncomfortable and find strange; nonetheless, the part where both do their best to become good adults before meeting again can really pull your heartstrings! The book, though it is meant for children, is a recommended read. I love it to bits!
After watching a movie of A Girl of the Limberlost, I thought this author must be amazing. So I read A Girl of the Limberlost and was enthralled and delighted until the second half of the book which was kind of dull and kind of unnecessary. Moving on from there I tried The Magic Garden which had a great title reminiscent of The Secret Garden--but was absolutely awful. Rambling, incoherent, melodramatic, and a great slog of a journey this is not a book I would ever recommend. A pity because it would have been a really good story. But it wasn't.
Definitely not my favorite Gene Stratton-Porter story. I think it was meant to be a modern take on a fairy tale. But the flat characters were hard to relate to, and the story was rather preposterous. Buying a love story between a 5-year old girl and a young teen boy is a stretch to begin with, but you throw in how rich she is, how quickly her father's character changes and the out of left field ending, and this feels like a slapped together story from GSP, who is normally a good author.
I love this author but this is not her best book. Usually I like her books because they give a hopeful image of the great possibilities in life. This was such an extremely idealistic picture of love it was impossibile to believe, and therefore did not impart the hope and optimism I have learned to expect from her. The pure motives and unmixed emotions of her characters are so rare as to be unrealistic.
This is one of the most pure love stories I have ever read. I love it, looking for a digital copy. My copy is old and moldy but I try to read about every 5 years. ( By the way I am highly allergic to mold so reading it always cost me but OH it is worth it.)This book was written by a pure heart and it infuses and encourages those of the same mind and heart.
This book reads like a fairy tale. I really enjoy the world and people that the Authoress creates. Gene Stratton-Porter creates perfect characters with high moral values and no evident flaws. In her own words, the authoress states that the characters she portrays "create a picture true to ideal life; to the best that good men and good women can do at their level best."
So beautiful!
This is one of my favorite books of all time. I have read it over and over through the years. The story of such pure, innocent and selfless love is something that is missing in a lot of current books. Though I enjoy a wide variety of current books, romantic and otherwise, it is nice to go back and read The Magic Garden now and then.
This novel was written around 1926 and it shows. Amaryllis is smart, well educated but uses it only to make a house beautiful for her true love. He is also well educated and a virtuoso violinist and gets to go on tours and give concerts. Very dated. It gets very preachy with 1926 stiff conduct and moral codes.I did enjoy the first part of the book when Amaryllis was five, rich, abandoned by everyone and desperate to be part of a family who cares.The ending was typical of the time but very disappointing. It was a real tear-jerker.I've read other books by this author, Freckles, Freckles Come Home, and Girl of the Limberlost, and enjoyed them a great deal. This one was well written with a similar style but still a disappointment.
This is classified as a youth book, but I found it a charming and sweet story. The innocence of the children, and the sweet tender love a child has for another. Gene Stratton-Porter wrote this book with Lee Thayer. Sometimes the books of today of an edge that forgets the innocence of a child.
Such a lovely story! Enjoyed it a lot!
a life changer
It's kind of a cheat to add this book to my list, but since it's the topic of my dissertation, I thought it would be a good thing to have on my site. This is a wonderful translation of a difficult late-13th century French text, written by a woman who was later put to death for it. The book was translated into English, Latin, Italian, and perhaps German within a century or two of the author's demise. It is difficult in the sense that it deals with becoming one with God, directly and during one's life. Unlike many spiritual texts of the time, it discusses how one gets started through the Church and Christ, but then rockets past at least the Church in the fifth and sixth stages to work directly with God.I am interested in this text because of the mystery surrounding its transmission into other languages. The English edition was translated by someone who left us only a set of initials to work with: M.N. But I am also interested in the spiritual notions of the 12th and 13th century expressed both in literature and in devotional texts such as the Mirror. It seems that this was a time of spiritual exploration that has been mostly lost to the modern world. And the Mirror is a marvelous example of a woman coming to terms with the difficult world around her despite the failings of her Church and political leadership. It may be a very useful text to the people of today.
So impressed by this read over a decade ago, will read again, now in Classics of Western Spirituality edition. This book is work to read, but worth the effort. And not a book for persons unready to fall over the precipice from dogmatic constraints, or possibly very good selection for those needing a push to let go and discover another so-called heretic that simply lived too intimate with truth for the hierarchy to consider how she was a light of hope, not a darkness threatening the present and future of the Catholic church. Porete's message is liberating, as she speaks of the primal priority of love above virtue. She details for us how this way of Love unfolds to union with Love.She, like other truth-tellers, are often not at-home among their own, those they offer their gift to not to hurt, but bless. Yet her treatise of truth-telling lyrics lives on many centuries after the burning of her body, at the injunction of Catholic church heirarchy. This fate and this treatise may remind us that sometimes the fear of falsehood easily blinds one to the truth.
Strange and brilliant.
Not for those new to mysticism A bewildering, magical book, that is definitely not for those new to mysticism—if I had read this book a few years ago, I would not have been ready for it, and even now I’m certain much of its riches lay undiscovered to my current spiritual level.A book that neatly removes any and all middlemen, it is unsurprising that the Church found her and her message to be such a threat to institutional religion.
Some wild and astonishing moments, but mostly I was skimming over what felt inaccessible.
I didn't think I would "like" this book, and thats really not why I read it. I read it because of one line in "World Without End" which referenced it. And yes, I am so neurotic, I had to read it just to "get" that one reference. Its translated to English, which doesn't mean I understood it. Not at all. Sometimes I wondered if I wasn't "spiritual" enough to understand it. Sometimes I wondered if I didn't understand it because it was SO CRAZY. Sometimes I wondered if a different translation would make more sense to me, but again, it was written in English, so... Anywho, I am really glad I read it. The content, in the historical context, is off the hook. I'm glad I have this reference tucked away in my brain. I'm going to hold on to it, and maybe do a re-read one of these years. Its already really informed my understanding of another book, "The Shack" and my mind is blown that I would read these two books consecutively. Cue "Twilight Zone" music...
Women look too far to find the real stories of spiritual women. Marguerite Porete is a wonderful spiritual leader whose writings come from this 13th C mystic. Translated by Ellen Babinsky this becomes a beautiful teaching.  We listen to 'modern' women theologians or tv preachers and miss the wholeness of this Mystics thoughts.  Come and drink at the well.
Tried very hard to find meaning in this. Finally gave myself permission to take it back to the library. Blech.
Wow, that was a long one, but it was worth it. I'mean we're talking Sherlock Holmes here; probably the most famous detective in mystery fiction. I usually don't stick to one writer, especially if it was as good as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. However, I don't like to leave a book unfinished so it can't be helped. "The Hound of the Baskervilles" was quite an adventure. I've never guessed who is the villain. I would have if I thought outside the box (which you should in mystery novels), but the author did a good job in misleading the reader with a lot of events going on at the same time. "The Valley of Fear"This one was amazing, and once again I failed to see the truth. The second half of the tale takes you back 20 years in to the past where a lot of things related to the story is explained. Among Sherlock Holmes novels, this was my favorite.The rest was a collection of short stories which were interesting enough to read. my favorites were " The Adventure of the Red Circle ", " The Adventure of the Dying Defective ", " The Adventure of the Devil's Foot", " The Adventure of the Sussex Vampire " and " The Adventure of the Bruce-Partingon Plans "
Such a fun journey with my favorite couple.
The only thing I regret about reading the stories of Sherlock Holmes in two great big chunks is that I feel like it's all over too soon. How I wish I'd lived in the time where I would have had to wait, impatient and eager, for the next installment of the great detective's adventures. The wait would have been well worth it.While reading, I am in fact transported to Victorian England, to the apartment at 221B Baker Street which I can see clearly in my mind's eye (note: I have never watched any Sherlock inspired TV series). From that sitting room I embark on, with Holmes and Watson, so many mind boggling adventures where I try as I might, like Watson does, to keep up with the great Sherlock Holmes. He leaves me for dust just about every time, but that makes it no less enjoyable. I rather like watching him prove his talents time and again.John Watson faithfully chronicles the adventures of Sherlock Holmes for us, as Holmes is called to many a case where it is never about the money, only the mental exercise. Holmes likes to be challenged and more often than not he rises to the occasion. We are told that there are some cases that were not solved, which is interesting, but their tales have not been concluded because they lack completion. We also find in this volume, one story from the third person and a couple from Holmes', both which I enjoyed and had a distinctly different voice to that of Watson. I felt that these were interesting author choices but also reflective of the fact Watson and Holmes were not always together. As I'm sure you can tell, I loved every Sherlock Holmes story I read. Some of course were more thrilling than others, more adventurous, but they were all well written and very clever all the same. My hat off to Sherlock Holmes, John Watson and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Entertaining...would be good to read to an audience on dark and gloomy nights.
Brilliant.
“Someday, the true story may be told.”These were Sherlock Holmes’ last words as written on page 737 of Sherlock Holmes Complete Novels and Stories Volume 2, by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I have now reached the end of my journey. A first, I must say, on my part reading a canon.The whole experience was a bit bumpy but nevertheless amazing and educational. I would have finished this volume in a week or two, but there’s a part of me which wanted to prolong the ride. I know I can always read Sir Doyle’s works anytime. It’s just that on my part, it was pretty tough to let go. I may be overreacting, I don’t know, but that’s how it is. During the days I was absorbed reading Sherlock Holmes’ stories, adventures, case-books, memoirs, whatever you call it, I even experienced seeing him in my dreams. I’m not exactly sure how the story went in my dream, all I know is that I saw him there. Sherlock Holmes visited me in my dreams. Isn’t that sweet?I’ve read a lot of novels and have been acquainted with a couple of male characters but it was only Sherlock Holmes who blew me away. Well, unlike other characters and heroes, he is the only one, by far, who had the luxury to pour himself onto his readers. Imagine with those four novels and 56 short stories (divided in Volumes 1 and 2), readers and fans like me, can truly have the opportunity to know him on a deeper level and have a clear picture of him as if he really exists in real life.I couldn’t be more grateful to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle for bringing the greatest detective ever in our lives, in my life specifically. He has been beyond generous on his descriptions of Sherlock Holmes in every story. And what a genius he is for coming up with such amazing adventures! It was, in general, a pleasant experience and an educational trip. To Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, thank you. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. Not only have you made my 24th year of existence more colourful and bright, but you have also proven to me, that great minds never once forget the Creator that is behind it.To Dr John Watson, it has been very selfless of you to show your loyalty and obedience to Sherlock Holmes even if some things are beyond your understanding and even if it meant welcoming danger upon saying ‘yes’ to your bestfriend. Sir Doyle, yet again showed in you that we are all capable of meeting and maintaining a close tie with at least one person for the rest of our years on earth. And that even the most successful person needs someone to turn to in times of tears and much more in times of laughter.Lastly, to Mr Sherlock Holmes, I apologise for using the prefix due to you just now. I wanted my narration of you in my previous writings to be casual as I feel that I can express more using only ‘Sherlock’ or ‘Holmes’ or ‘Sherlock Holmes.’ This time around, I am addressing you as Mr Sherlock Holmes as a sign of respect and yeah, love, for the character and person that you are in these carefully crafted adventures. You have showed that all men have a soft spot and it takes time before one can truly see that. You have also showed that some people even behind those cold masks are capable of showing emotions. You have taught me that small details, which are oftentimes considered unimportant can also be as vital as the big ones. You are a perfect example, a model to me of someone who can exhibit composure amidst chaos and have proven that patience is definitely a virtue that we humans must all possess. Above all, you have shown regards to a Supreme Being. You are one of the few fictional characters who have successfully instilled in my mind that this life is not our own. Hence, we should take care of it with all our powers.Thanks to you all.This isn’t a heart-breaking goodbye. Best to put it as my first goodbye for I am certain that I will be with you all again in due time.‘Til next time my dearest SH. <3*a friend told me that the best way to get over this great book (as I don’t want to really feel sad) is to read a new one right away. And that’s what I’m going to do now.
Ahhhh! am done , I feel so accomplished it took me tremendous time to finish this volume, over three months with 11 other novels in-between, you can't tackle Sherlock Holmes novels, you have to take it slowly, piece be piece, adventure by adventure, enjoy each one, and indulge yourself with the old Victorian British narrating of Doyle. if any one is going to read Sherlock Holmes I would recommend to get the books one at a time, other wise it might overweight you as intriguing as it is , but it is too much to take in one setting, and the joy of it will be backfires, so YES take is Slowly, I wish I had a living room as the one in Baker St. with a warm fire and a comfy chair, reading it in a cold evening sipping tea .Sigh~ delightful would be the word....as for this Volume , well it IS Sherlock Holmes, and its brilliance lies in its simplicity, you keep reading and you find that the answer in every mystery is so simple yet genius. I had my share of favorites in this one , but I think my favorite is "the adventure of the three Garridebs"loved this one how it showed Holmes's emotions was so sweet to the point that I wanted to hug the book, but I was in a Bank "people everywhere" and I couldn't . and the "the Lying Detective " too.my least favorite was "the adventure of the veiled lodger" but what made me think and felt a bang of sadness was the "the adventure of the lion's mane"putting the mystery aside, the idea of Sherlock's retirement and him becoming that distant from Waston, to the point of rarely seeing each other was really depressing , after all these years even their friendship was challenged, to be a far timed visit, that was really unfortunate.now that am finished with the complete works and adventures of Sherlcok HOlmes, I think I will go back to it from time to time, just to re-visit Baker Street, and refresh my memory with certain adventure, especially after watching and adaptions here or there.cos I know my memory will betray me and I will not remember most of then after a while, so it wont be the end of it ,,the Game is STILL afoot.
With pride i can say i finished this volume together with first one which were my company in various occasions. no matter where you were just opening the book takes you to another place and takes your mind with it to try and solve what problems that may lay . and for this we should give credit to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle whom i will forever wonder how does such things come to his mind :) . picturing Holmes as an ingenious , methodical man and yet a humble, tender hearted that may appear to only those who deserve. and picturing Watson the loyal companion,that no one would be ever lucky to have a friend like . but i was that lucky to have both of them as companions through this time and for this i'm grateful . *But i would also advice to read the stories seperately so as not to get bored with a 700 page book
I did not enjoy this as a whole volume as much as the first volume. I didn't find the novels to be that enjoyable and after reading them found it difficult to find the motivation to continue the rest of the book.The short stories were much better, and especially enjoyed that two short stories were in the point of view of Sherlock Holmes, which was interesting to see. I also liked the change in, I think it was, one or two of the short stories being in third person was also interesting.
My favourites
Just as good as Volume One. I want someone to make me a tshirt with a picture of Holmes and Watson exchanging necklaces with "BFFs" inscribed on them. (actually, considering the time period, I suppose they'd exchange engraved watches or something.)Oh Watson, how I love you. And Now A Word On The Movie: It had so much potential. Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law are wonderful as Holmes and Watson, and their combined awesome can overcome Rachel McAdam's miscasting as Irene Adler. But everything else is a stinking pile of action trash steampunk fail. They take Irene Adler, an awesome character from A Scandal in Bohemia (Volume I) and degrade her into a silly former fling of Holmes' (does. not. compute.); and the plot seems to have been stolen from a rejected Dan Brown novel. No, no, no, and NO.
If you know anything about Sherlock Holmes apart from the Robert Downey Jr. movie versions, then you will have a good idea of what you are getting into when you pick up this book. The Valley of Fear is the best Holmes novel, in my opinion, and it was interesting to read the two stories in this collection that are told by Sherlock himself. Nothing earth-shattering here, just good 'ol meat-and-potatoes mystery writing.
Amazing
*5 out of 5 stars*"When you have eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.”How can I possibly convey, in a set amount of words, how much I thoroughly enjoy the stories of Sherlock Holmes? I just can’t see that it’s possible to dislike them. However, I will attempt a brief review.Watson's narrative provides an unbiased telling of the various cases he shares with his eccentric, renowned pal, and we must follow along until Holmes is ready to divulge his process of analysis and unearth the true murderer or criminal. Sometimes we are even graced with the narrative of Holmes himself. I will mention one con I found before I move on and that was that it seemed for these latter stories (some, not all) Doyle rushed them, as if simply transcribing them rather than unfolding them. Okay, moving on. Some of the cases you could guess the motive and criminal before the end of the story, but most of the time you were blind-sided once you reached the end. Arthur Conan Doyle knew how to keep his audience guessing until the very end, and I think that’s what I like most about his stories. These ones, however, were a bit more violent than I remember Volume I being. Also, near the end of our beloved stories, as if Doyle seems to portray Holmes as more human than previously; that even the greatest detective sometimes makes mistakes and doesn’t always know the full answer. But I like that. He is human after all, despite his astute deductive reasoning.Rich with adventure and suspense, and wit and humor in all the right places, the stories of Sherlock Holmes are simply timeless. Nothing more to say. However, I’m sure you can guess that for yourselves - if you have not already. I'm sad to see it finally finished, and I just don't think that there are many sleuths that can compare.My favorites include The Hound of Baskervilles, The Valley of Fear, The Adventure of the Red Circle, The Adventure of the Dying Detective, The Adventure of the Sussex Vampire, The Adventure of the Three Garridebs, and the Adventure of the Creeping Man.
My final installment of the Holmes' series, I can now lay claim to having read them all. Some of the stories toward the end slipped a bit, as it feels like Doyle, bored with the basic premise, characters, settings, and plot line, tried to tweak the variables to re-enliven the series for himself as the writer. But the life-long problem that Doyle had with Holmes is that people wanted their Holmes and Watson just as Doyle had always given it to them with no fancy flourishes.Two of these stories are written first person by Holmes, with Watson not involved, and one was written in third-person with both Holmes and Watson as external actors. While I can imagine Doyle enjoying the challenge as a writer of the shifted perspective and the changed writing style of Holmes vs. Watson, the stories suffer as a result in comparison to the classic Holmes format and style.Doyle would have to (and did) seek other avenues to stretch his artistic muscles. See for example Lost World & the Poison Belt where Doyle introduces his Professor Challenger character.And in any case, compared to so much of the modern adventure or mystery fiction, these still deserve the rating of "What a Classic" for the care and competence involved in constructing them and the cozy familiarity of the Holmes magic.
This is the 2nd part of Arthur Conan Doyle's Complete Novels and Stories. The edition consists of the possibly most well known novel 'The Hound of the Baskervilles', but the main part of the book contains a collection of the Sherlock short stories. I like those better than the novels actually, as they are describing only one case each, which makes it feel more like an actual diary.The edition is just as great as the first volume, though as I said, I like the short stories and the 2nd installment more than the first one overall.
Excellent! This is a Penguin Classic, reprinted in 2008 from the original in 1927. It presents seven inspiring Negro sermons in verse.A thought-provoking statement comes from the Forward: “African Americans are the only people in the whole world and history who really practice Christianity.” No one else has ever found in their hearts the gift of forgiveness, the Forward claims. African Americans forgave the slave owners who worked them without payment for 240 years. This ability to forgive made many former slave owners uneasy, so incomprehensible was their forgiveness.These transplanted Africans accepted Jesus as their savior and laid all their worries on him. God’s trombones—the old time Negro preachers—were powerful, eloquent figures in their community. A community surviving on hope. When the lyricists wrote, “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot, coming for to carry me home,” neither the singer nor the audience had to tax their imagination to consider death a sweet chariot or to doubt that heaven was their destination. When the folk-sermon was in full swing, a rhythmic dance to the beat of powerful voice, an electric current passed through the congregation.You don’t want to miss these seven poetic sermons.
contains one of the most beautiful poems i've ever read..."Go Down Death (A Funeral Sermon)." i can only believe that Mr. Johnson *had* to have been overcome with Spirit when creating this phenomenal work. the clarity and strength of the images that spring up from his words is unbelievable. i've recited "Go Down Death" at the funerals for both of my grandmothers. even now, just reading it casually, i still get emotional just before the end of the poem.
What an incredible book of sermons! The imagery is incredible! loved this book, have read it twice so far
Sounding God's TrombonesJames Weldon Johnson (1871 -- 1938) is best-known as the author of "Lift Every Voice and Sing," the "Negro National Anthem" written in 1900 for Lincoln's birthday. Johnson had extraordinary gifts as a poet. His celebration of the African-American preacher in God's Trombones, published in 1927, is a masterpiece of American poetry.Johnson was inspired to write "God's Trombones: Seven Negro Sermons in Verse " after hearing a stirring African-American preacher in Kansas City in 1918. Johnson wrote seven free-verse poems on biblical themes to capture the rhythm, content, language and religious commitment of the African-American preacher. Johnson also wrote a celebrated prose introduction to the book in which he described the place of the preacher in African-American life and explained his decision not to use dialect in writing the poems. Johnson also explained why he used the trombone as the guiding figure of his poem. Johnson wrote of his experience with the Kansas City preacher:"He strode the pulpit up and down in what was actually a very rhythmic voice, a voice -- what shall I say? -- not of an organ or a trumpet, but rather of a trombone, the instrument possessing above all others the power to express the wide and varied range of emotions encompassed by the human voice -- and with greater amplitude. He intoned, he moaned, he pleaded, -- he blared, he crashed, he thundered. ... [T]he emotional effect upon me was irresistible."The poetry opens with a short preliminary call to prayer, "Listen, Lord" followed by the seven sermons. The sermons open with the preacher's account of "The Creation"; and they conclude with a sermon on the end of days, "The Judgment Day". Four of the remaining poems deal with Biblical subjects, "The Prodigal Son", "Noah Built the Ark", "The Crucifixion", and "Let my People Go", the story of the Exodus from Egypt. The remaining sermon "Go down death -- a Funeral Sermon" is a meditation on the death of an elderly woman in Georgia who, in the preacher's language, is carried by Death to the throne of Jesus. The poems are in free verse, move in an elevated and lively style, include vivid imagery, and a sense of rhythmic speech and propulsion. It is useful to read them aloud. The poems make use effective use of repetition. Look at "The Crucifixion", for example, and see the many different adjectives Johnson applies to the figure of Jesus. The opening lines of the first three stanzas alone refer to "my gentle Jesus", "my burdened Jesus" and "my sorrowing Jesus". Each of the poems conclude with a short and effective exhortation to the listener. Thus, in the final words of the final poem, "The Judgment Day":"Sinner, oh sinner,Where will you stand,In that great day when God's a-going to rain down fire?"These poems are short and the book can be read quickly. But they will have a long-lived impact on the reader. This book would make an excellent introduction to poetry for young people. And Johnson has given a lasting and eloquent treatment to the art and spirit of the African-American preacher.Robin Friedman
Interesting filtering of Bible stories, through the voices of pre-civil rights black preachers, through Johnson's elegant but forceful poetry.I find it interesting that these are mostly Old Testament tales -- an angry, vengeful God. These preachers and their congregations were so profoundly sinned against; perhaps that made the idea of salvation for the good and hellfire for the evil particularly attractive.
This book took me back to the church of my childhood. Powerful, soul stirring sermons. I loved it.
A classic worth re-reading anytime.
A masterpiece of rhythm and voice. In his preface, Johnson laments the passing of the African American revivalist preacher; he needn't have worried, for he has captured the eloquence and power of such sermons with the fervency of a true devotee. More than sermons, though, these poems are a moving testament to the electric artistry of the Harlem Renaissance. God's Trombones reveals something new about itself every time I read it. It is a must-read for any student of religious literature, jazz-age poetry, or African American history.
God's Trombones: Seven Negro Sermons in Verse by James Weldon Johnson (Viking Press 1969)(811). This is a transcription in verse form of seven famous and fabulous sermon topics in the Black church tradition. This is beautiful poetry. My rating: 7/10, finished 1975.
"When I start down the steep and slippery steps of death—When this old world begins to rock beneath my feet—Lower me to my dusty grave in peaceTo wait for that great gittin' up morning—Amen."
Originally published in 1927, God’s Trombones features seven popular African-American sermons structured as poems. As Mr. Johnson writes in his introduction, his decision to write them as verse is to capture the lyrical, rhythmic style frequently used by African-American preachers. The result is a lovely collection with a cadence and energy that jumps off the page. My one complaint is that I wish there were more. For those interested in either the historic or religious, this book is worth a read. Highly recommended. A note that I read an older edition of this book, which included both an introduction by Mr. Weldon and drawings by Aaron Douglas.
Here in poetic form, James Weldon Johnson has captured the rhythms and cadence of the black preacher. "The Creation" was once memorized and recited at the graduations at segregated "colored" schools. This is the same man who wrote "Lift Every Voice and Sing", the Black National Anthem. This is a real African American classic.
It was like being in church (and suddenly made me wish to go).
My favorite short book of poetry ... Truly it's the sort of book that begs to be read aloud ... It's been a while since I first read these sermons in verse, but I plan to add to my list of books to be re-read on a regular basis this marvelous, slender volume ...
fast food
This little collection of sermons is amazing. And Johnson's 1927 preface is a must read - it offers an an insightful and enjoyable explanation for his choice of the book's title. These sermons are placed in verse and read with the shear power, severity, eloquence, and emotion that is so inherent to the black folk tradition of early 20th century.
I've had this wonderful little book on my shelves for years, but had never read it from cover to cover, and had never read Johnson's preface. Today I picked it up on a whim and read the whole thing in one short sitting. The poems, based on the style of African-American preachers, are excellent, entertaining, and moving. The preface is equally strong, making a case that black preaching is a folk art worthy of preservation.See if you can read "Go Down Death - A Funeral Sermon" without getting a lump in your throat, no matter what your theology. Here's an excerpt:And God sat back on his throne,And he commanded the tall, bright angel standing at his right hand:Call me Death!And that tall, bright angel called in a voiceThat broke like a clap of thunder:Call Death! -- Call Death!And the echo sounded down the streets of heavenTill it reached away back to that shadowy place,Where Death waits with his pale, white horses.And Death heard the summons,And he leaped on his fastest horse,Pale as a sheet in the moonlight.Up the golden street Death galloped,And the hoofs of his horse struck fire from the gold,But they didn't make no sound.Up Death rode to the Great White Throne,And waited for God's command.And God said: Go down, Death, go down,Go down to Savannah, Georgia,Down in Yamacraw,And find Sister Caroline.She's borne the burden and heat of the day,She's labored long in my vineyard,And she's tired --She's weary --Go down Death, and bring her to me.
I read the whole series as a teenager. Even though I haven't read them in years I still give 5 stars. Just for the memory. I was leaving with the Whiteoak when I read them for sure.
Funny and interesting to re-read something from your childhood. I remember going to the library in Helsinki and the the first book suggested by the librarian in the adult-book-department was the Jalna series by Mazo de la Roche. Little did I know that I would be living, for a while, not too far from the original Jalna.Interesting how life surprises you. I do understand why I loved the series madly when I was a younger…and I enjoyed the re-read experience for nostalgic reasons.
Lots of excitement in the Whiteoak family in this one. This was actually the first one written and I can see how she's developed the characters in her later writing. A little soap operaish but an enjoyable read. This is the first one I wouldn't recommend for kids, some more mature themes going on.
Quite enjoyable, wish I'd known this one wasn't the first in the series, will have to see if I can get the rest.
Oh my! Those Whiteoaks! A lot happens in this book. It is actually the first book that the author wrote in the series; she went back later and filled in the history of the family in what are now the first 6 books of the series if read chronologically instead of in published order. In this book there are as usual 3 generations of Whiteoaks living at Jalna. The oldest is 100 and the youngest is 10. They are such an insular family; rarely getting away from each other or the house and this closeness can lead to trouble. So interesting to see how my feelings towards a lot of the characters have changed since I read these books at 14-15 years of age. What I once thought romantic, now not so much!
Jalna is totally absorbing. Like all the Jalna novels, it is well written and its characters well drawn. De La Roche makes the landscape here is especially lyrical, the multifaceted plot especially interesting, and the many characters of the Whiteoak family distinctive and, not always attractive, but generally sympathetic and, well, real. The rascally matriarch celebrates her 100th birthday, and while no completely "happy endings" are in sight, Jalna and the Whiteoaks endure.
I first read a Jalna book when I was a teen. My Mom had loved the series when it was but 25 years old, and 20+ years later thought I would also. I'm not quite sure why it didn't catch my attention at the time; maybe it was the time period in which it was set (I preferred either current, or 18th/19th centuries; I was also eyeball deep in the Black Stallion series at the time). I didn't dislike it, I just didn't really get into it.Fast forward 40 years and I found it on her library shelf along with several others. I picked it up because I didn't remember much about it and finished it in just three evenings of reading. I was absorbed in the characters, albeit a bit surprised that my Mom had read this particular book as a teen - what with the relationships described. I'm not well versed in that area of Canada, nor in that time period in Canada - so it's refreshing to be learning something new.I do have to say, that I was also surprised at the description on the last page of the Jalna books as romance appropriate for young ladies... and the titles of some of the others on the list seemed a bit titillating. Of course, I also think this was pre-Hollywood code, so perhaps the US hadn't gotten quite so prudish yet.
Vintage series. This was my introduction to it. This is supposedly #7, but it was the first she wrote. Not exciting enough for me to want to read more.
JALNA is a beautifully written story set in Ontario, Canada. There are lyrical descriptions of Nature, for the Whiteoaks live on a large country estate with horses, dogs, livestock and even a pet parrot! As early as chapter two we learn the family history which is dominated by Adeline Whiteoak, now a 99-year-old grandmother. But the real appeal lies in the shocking, semi-incestuous relationships of her grandchildren. In many ways JALNA qualifies as soap opera, but it's a magnificent one on a par with THE FORSYTE SAGA. In 1924 American Alayne Archer impulsively marries poet Eden Whiteoak only to realize---too late---that he isn't the right man for her. Alayne is smart and cerebral but also sexually inhibited. Things pick up after she meets her new brother-in-law, Renny Whiteoak, who, er, AWAKENS her. Renny is earthy and passionate and in many ways her polar opposite. He and Alayne fall messily and inconveniently in love. Now for the first time she has a libido to control and she MUST control it because of her marriage vows. Yet all the while Eden, that rascal, is having his own secret affair with someone else... A great read. Not much plot but strange and vividly drawn characters. My favorite is the grandmother, who celebrates her 100th birthday in the last chapter. She has a racy tongue, a sardonic sense of humor and a colorful past. And "Jalna" is her family home, named after the Indian military station where she first met her husband back in 1848. The old lady still dominates her family and loves them all even when they're misbehaving, which is most of the time.
It is a very beautiful book! Not the kind that become an obsession, but it is a book that touches your soul. The writer is very good, her style is so fresh and real that makes you feel like you are in the book too! And you have the opportunity to get inside the mind of all the Jalna's family members, to become each of them, to understand and feel like they do. For some pages you are an old women of 99 years and next you become a 9 years little boy. I recommend this book.
Its been a long time since I read the Whiteoak saga and I am enjoying a revisit to the series. It's interesting how some of your view points change and some don't as you get older. In my teens I was very interested in the Piers/Pheasant romance but now I find Piers irritating. I also have a lot more sympathy and interest in Finch. I used to feel sorry for Alayne but now I feel irritated with her and sorry for Renny! But I still enjoy a good book version of a soap.
I read this book in Jr Hi and escaped into another time and place. I have read it more times than I can count and eventually bought the entire set at garage sales, booksales and the internet. I want to be part of the Whiteoak family! I especially enjoyed it because my father was from Ontario Canada.
A pleasant, slow but poignant novel of India/England/Canada. Perfect for summer reading. I'm starting some of her others (not a sequential series).
This is a very well written book in the Jalna series, one of my favorites.
I really enjoyed this book and look forward to reading others in the series!
I read and enjoyed the entire Whiteoaks of Jalna series as a teenager, beginning with The Building of Jalna and finishing with Centenary at Jalna. When my mother passed away in 1996, I discovered that somewhere along the way she had acquired the full set in paperback. Since I had always intended to read them again some day, I took them home and added them to my own library.This summer, I decided to re-enter the world of Jalna, but this time I'm reading the books in the order they were written, rather than chronologically. So far I think that was a good decision, as I don't have a sense of "this happened, then that." After all, when we make friends with someone, we don't learn their life story from start to finish, do we?If someone was considering reading the Jalna books for the first time, I would suggest beginning with Jalna, as I found it more compelling than I remember The Building of Jalna being.
Book #7 in the Jalna series. This was the first Jalna book Mazo de la Roche wrote, although it is the seventh in terms of storyline chronology. I am enjoying a summer reread of this series. I found some of the earlier books (i.e. The Building of Jalna) a slower read but when I got to Jalna, I discovered this was a book I remembered! and truly love I love the strong characterizations and the drama of this book. Readers are introduced to Alayne, who marries Eden Whiteoak, a budding poet, after a short courtship. When she moves to Jalna, she is attracted to Eden's oldest brother, Renny, who is the opposite of Eden in just about every way. Eden also finds a surprising romantic interest. And we have now 100 year old Gran (Adeline Whiteoak) and the rest of the family.I loved many passages in this book, like this one:"Down in the ravine it was almost night, so darkly the stream glimmered amid the thick undergrowth and so close above him hung the sky, not yet pricked by a star. Climbing up the steep beyond, it was darker still, except for the luminous shine of the silver birches that seemed to be lighted by some secret beam within."
Since this is the book that began the series, I'm surprised to find that I didn't enjoy it all that much. Okay, I can understand that the author got better as time went by, but the point is, THIS book was what made people interested in reading more and I just don't really see why. It was only OKAY. I had originally intended to read all the books in order of their events (she wrote them out of chronological order), but probably won't finish now.
This fiction series follows the Whiteoaks family through about 100 years of their history living at Jalna, a property located near Lake Ontario, just west of Toronto. I read all 16 of the books one summer, when I was about seventeen years old. And I enjoyed every one. Each character is well developed, and the Ontario location is depicted faithfully. I still plan to track down the estate that inspired the books one day.
This novel was the first to be published and its popularity started the Jalna series. After reading it I can understand why. So far, it is the strongest book so far. It is has the most serious plot and the most carefully drawn characters and an open ending that obviously invites more books. I'm ready to read the next one....
Good wholesome family story - read it more than once - compare to a good macaroni cheese casserole.Original publication date was way, way back. 1920s or '30s.
Masterpiece!
Read the whole series early in my teens and seeing them on here has tempted me to read them again
GoodGood good good don't miss this one. Stay on your toes. Good, good, good! Don't give up the ship, hang in there
During the late 20's many of those who experienced World War I wrote semi-autobiographical novels. One of them was Arnold Zweig (1887-1968), a German writer, anti-war and anti-fascist activist. He is known for his six-part cycle on World War I called The Great War of the White Men and the first part of it is this 1001 book, The Case of Sargeant Grischa.The story is about mistaken identity. Sergeant Grischa is a Russian POW in Germany during WWI and he escapes with the help of his lover, Babka and young woman who dresses as a man. Before he leaves the German camp, Babka gives Sergeant the name tag of Bjuscheff a dead soldier who is a German deserter. Babka thinks that if Grischa gets caught being a German deserter he will be sent home and not back to the German prison camp.Babka is wrong. When Grischa is caught he is sentence to death by firing squad. As the trial unfolds the drama begins. The German authorities, coming fresh from the war, try everything to reverse the order of the camp administrator, Schieffenzahn. Grischa is illiterate and so he does not understand everything that happens on the trial. The pivotal scene is when he reveals his true identity as a Russian soldier Grischa and not the German deserter Bjuscheff, he thinks that he will be saved only to realize that Schieffenzahn will restore his death penalty just for the sake of discipline. They say that the novel is a satire for the German rich and influential people, including Jews, who spend a lot of time on the case to save the life of one man only to face the errors of Holocaust only a bit more than a decade later. This book was published in 1927.The book gives more information about World War I that I know a little about. It is a lot better than All Quiet on the Western Front (4 stars) but not us dramatic as Birdsong (4 stars) by Sebastian Faulks or The Wars (4 stars) by Timothy Findley. The reading feels like reading Mother (3 stars) by Maxim Gorky because of the names of the characters and the way they speak. Both novels are written by Russian authors during the early 20th century.Suffice it to say that this is one of the best war novels that I've read. A lone man's struggle for justice amidst German's search for its own identity in between the two world wars.A must read for all WWI-interested readers.
An astonishing, devastating novel. It's been a very long time since I read anything that got under my skin so much. The night when I tried to go to bed with about sixty pages left to read I found I couldn't sleep.This book is an outstanding example of how good writing elevates whatever the subject is -- the story could easily have been sentimental and the moralizing heavy-handed (there are one or two moments that the author doesn't quite pull off) but it turned out beautifully. The last chapter is just the perfect finish for it.People can be terrible to one another and the state of the world is bad, but a thin thread of hope remains.
German book written in 1928, one of the earlier novels of WW I. A Russian POW escapes from captivity, and when recaptured is sentenced to death in a case of mistaken identity. Very interesting viewpoint on German attitude toward Jews (Zweig was Jewish). Very unusual and worthwhile book!
History books tell us what happened. Fiction explores how the things that happened affected those who lived through them. This book looks deeply into a wholly plausible, but presumably fictional, incident of injustice in time of war, and how it affected those who were involved. The setting is the Eastern Front in 1917, as the Germans paused to allow the Russian army to collapse, anticipating that they would soon sue for peace on any terms.An escaped Russian prisoner of war has been recaptured and mistakenly identified as a spy, and sentenced to be shot. His true identity is soon revealed, and all involved accept that he is not the spy, but someone else entirely. The infantry division which has custody prepares to prosecute him for his escape, but the paperwork winds up before the army commander, who decides that even though the prisoner is innocent, allowing any enemy soldier convicted of spying to live might be bad for German morale, and orders the death sentence to be carried out.The division commander, his chief legal advisor, his aide-de-camp, and others involved in the custody of this man are outraged, partly over the injustice of it, but also over the interference of Army in a matter that should have been handled at their level. The rest of the book examines the people on both sides of the issue, the decisions and maneuvers they make, and their thoughts, conversations, and actions.The book was published in 1927, and the modern reader might pause to consider the characters’ discussions of the ethical burdens of justice and the consequences of injustice. The defenders of the accused man are wholeheartedly committed to the idea that Germany is a civilized society built on fairness and the rule of law, and that allowing even one man – even an enemy soldier – to be wrongly executed could shatter forever what it means to be an honorable German. It is not with irony, because it is too tragic to be ironic, but with dismay that the modern reader considers that not many years after these discussions of inviolable ethical principles, the Germans were murdering millions of innocents under the banner of a depraved ideology.Although I liked the book, with its complex and believable characters, getting through it requires either commitment on the part of the reader, or a fondness for the verbose Dickensian novels of the 19th century. There were times when I wanted to toss it aside in frustration. Minor characters, no matter how peripheral to the plot, are introduced with pages of backstory, including their hometowns, education, pre-war occupations, thoughts about the war, conversations with friends, and even what they’ve been eating. After all that, they have a couple paragraphs where their small part plays out, and then they disappear forever.Ultimately, despite its frustrations, this book is worth reading. Any book that you keep thinking about after you have finished it is worth your time.
I think this is fantastic book
really good one. non-fiction myrmecology text but with strong communist/socialist political undertones. Published in 1930. a piece of history and worth a read if you are as obsessed with ants as I am!
It's a real shame the blurb for this book gives away the story. Fortunately, I hadn't read any blurb so had to guess what was coming. That aspect of the story made it really delightful, especially given how it played out. This is probably one of my favourite Pimpernel novels.
Warning: a little bit of language and perhaps more "romance" than parents might want. I plan to read this again and create a Clean Guide. Check back again or message me to request this be bumped to the top of the list!
I just love this series, I always have. These books gave me an interest in the French Revolution (because they reference real people and real events). In this one we get to see the unwitting hypocrisy of Monsieur Chambertin.The thing is, I always felt terribly sorry for Adèle. Orczy doesn't seem to be hugely sympathetic to her, but I think her situation sounds just awful :( I also tend to favour the ones in which we get to see the Sir Percy side of the character as well as the Pimpernel. But there's no denying I raced through this with more excitement than I've felt for quite a while at any novel - loved it.
Sir Percy Hits Back is one of many sequels to The Scarlet Pimpernel. It spends most of its time examining an unknown side of the series' villain, Chauvelin. Usually portrayed as a calculating, cold-hearted executioner, the character's softer side is shown as the reader discovers he is a father. It was an excellent example of how to make a character--even a villainous one--sympathetic to the reader. In the other books, Orczy habitually describes Chauvelin's hands as talon-like and sinister. However, in this volume the perspective changes to that of his daughter and she uses much softer terms to describe them. This book showed me how point of view changes how the author portrays the same object, person, etc. which I have implemented many times in my own writing.
My reaction to Sir Percy Hits Back.I wish I could rewrite it. Maybe I'll do that as a school project, it'd be kind of fun. Now, why what would I change? Well, it's a bit ranty. She spends such a long time going on about what's going on and describing what people are thinking and the climaxes are all weird and there seem to be things that are just plain contradictory.How can someone be at the same time "calm" and "terrified" in the same moment? The emotions she sets, I can't quite flow with them.All that being said, I enjoyed and I am glad that I read it. There are some surprising and fascinating things in here. It has some definite potential for being a fantastic book. I wish I could have been her editor when she wrote it. It was disappointing how much of a background character Sir Percy was. Marguerite is uhh... not even hardly in this book. You never see her and her name is not mentioned more than 10 times. So, really this book is about a different set of characters and how their lives are affected by Sir Percy, which is fine I guess, but not what I was expecting. I ended up really liking the people in it. One thing it did for me was paint a very clear picture of exactly how horrible the French Revolution was. It was terrible, for everyone. It was evil. I really do think this book is worthwhile. Chauvelin is amazing. You'll understand what I mean when you read it, he paints the clearest human picture. I just find myself wishing it were a better book! It has so much serious potential, she's got great material and thoughts. Maybe I will rewrite it. I want it to be read and enjoyed.Yeah, read it.
An excellant adventure of another mission that the Scarlet Pimpernel takes to save the innocent, and in this instance, some familiar faces are in need of saving! Though this was quite an injoyable read, I didn't find it to be quite as reviting as some of Orczy's other books in her Scarlet Pimpernel series. I would suggest reading Orczy's more exhilerating books first such as, El Dorado, The Elusive Pimpernel, and of course, The Scarlet Pimpernel, before starting with this book. Though with all of that said, I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.
This is great book!
Perfect little book of one story from Winnie the Pooh.
The classic story of a very rainy day, and a great time spent with Pooh, Piglet, and Owls (but I think Owl is more enjoyable to me than the little one.)
This is a nice simplification of Milne for very young children; my daughter loved it when she was 2 1/2 or so, still too young to care for the longer versions of the story. I particularly like that the illustrations are the old ones (not Disney), chosen with an eye to making the story make sense. Now that she is older we will be moving on to the full story, but these were a very good introduction, and Milne's prose (even abridged) is quite pleasant for reading out loud 87 times.
Adorable is the best way to describe Milne's adventure in the Hundred Acre Wood.
Pictures by Ernest H. Shepard complement the text by A. A. Milne. In this delightful story, Piglet is aware that he needs help from his friends. He enumerates what each friend would do if caught in the same situation, i.e., stranded by heavy rains. Christopher Robin, Pooh, Kanga, Rabbit, Owl, and Eeyore would cope in different ways.Piglet demonstrates resourcefulness by sending a message in a bottle.
such a cute tale of piglet.
What her poems lack in complexity, they make up for in genuine emotion. She may tiptoe up and down the line of sentimentality, but as far as I'm concerned, she does no more than let one toe across the line. Her best work is along the theme of lost love.
These poems were one of the best I have read! Not only did they foreshadow greatest depths in meaning but also they made me flow with them on a rhythm of beautiful words and gorgeous tones! This poet is quite extraordinary in the way she made many things simple in an outstanding kind of way!
Sarah Teasdale ❤ my heart is hers, her poems mine.
Sarah Teasdale ❤️ my heart is hers, her poems mine.
I feel like such a sap when I read Teasdale. While her poetry is simple in structure and often very short (some are only one stanza), and they tend to rhyme, they are full of longing and sentimentality. This set comes with the poem that is rumored to be the one she wrote after her past love killed himself ("I Shall Not Care"). My favorites were Spring, From the Woolworth Tower, I Am Not Yours, and A Cry; I didn't care much for the second of the five sections. Her poems seem familiar, but I don't think I've read her before. I think that is more a reflection of the simplicity and feeling of loss or sadness.I read this in a first edition, with brittle pages and that lovely old book smell. I'm sure that added to my enjoyment, but I also think you will get more from them if you read a little about her first.
sara is very unique poet, she had two weapons :love and death. her poem is description of regret and always wishing something else rather than what we have. there is lots of lovely poems but its not typical love, there is always something wrong, sad in her description. she is my favirote, there is strength and pain in her poems which is something i like.
This is some of the most beautiful poetry I've ever read!
My second of the four I read in two days. This continued to leave my heart in my throat the entire time. Oh, love. Love, you are trapped in these pages, like a bird, ever caught, at and ever flying free.
Love the last poem of the book, FROM THE SEA
When one reads this poetry, one gets struck by the way in which society moulds a poet. Teasdale was the recipient of the Columbia University Poetry Society prize for her Love Songs in 1918 – why? This poetry has some beautiful moments, but I found some of it extremely 'stale' and almost hated the way everything was forced to rhyme.The prize I mention above, was the forerunner of what we know as the Pulitzer today: Would you award Teasdale that prize today?
I think I'm in love with Sara. My favorite poems were Immortal, Leaves, The Cloud and "I am not yours". Some of the more memorable lines include "Lost as a candle lit at noon, / Lost as a snow-flake in the sea." and "A leaf borne onward by the blast, / A wave that never finds the shore."
This is a superbly written and extremely detailed history of the early days of modern Spiritualism. It discusses all the major mediums of the late 1850's through the early 1900's. It traces the growth of the movement from America through England. The mediumship of Leah, Maggie, and Kate Fox, Danniel Dunglas Home, the Davenport and Eddy Brothers. In those day Spiritualism's primary goal was to prove that communication with departed Spirits was possible. To this end, many mediums agreed to work with interested scientists, thus psychical research also began. This book also discusses the work of an early psychical researcher, William Crookes. It is an excellent book on the subject!
Interesting
Well written. He really tries to be objective. But Conan Doyle was a believer, and even in his writings you get the suspicion that most of these people were con artists.
This is my favourite so far (I'm reading them in order), perhaps because I'm getting used to its being more an adventure series than a school series. I also really enjoyed the plot, however predictable, and the use the girls make of their new survival/wilderness skills learned while trying to get more badges (I don't want to spoil here, but the last adventure Joey has is a good example of that). I feel that the whole Guiding aspect of the book was handled very badly, though, seeing as it was just dropped on us as a fait accompli - I for one would have liked to learn more about how the girls got enrolled in it, what kind of work was required of them, what badges they could expect to earn, etc. I suppose the author felt that her readers would know all about guiding already but it was frustrating for a reader like me who would have liked more explanation. The princess plot is a cliché in every school story I've read so far but I enjoyed it nonetheless. Looking forward to more, as usual.
This is the first of a collection of Chalet School books that I found in an Oxfam shop yesterday. I was instantly transported back 20+ years to when I first read some of them.In this one, we have a princess join the school, just as the head hires an unpleasant Matron. There's plenty of drama in this book, and I was sorry when it ended. Thank goodness I have more to read!
One of my favourite books in this series. Elisaveta, who is the Princess of Belsornia, has been sent to the Chalet School, to help her recovery from an illness. The fact that she is a princess has been kept secret from her schoolmates, except for Joey Bettany.Her cousin, who would be heir to the throne after her father, the Crown Prince, kidnaps her from her school in order to force her father to give up his position as the Crown Prince. Joey sets off to rescue her, and once again, saves the day!
Another very enjoyable read in this epic series, combining the far-fetched with the warm and familiar.'The Princess' is Elisaveta from the Imaginary state of Ruritania. Her father, the Crown Prince, very enlightened for the time, send her off to boarding school (note that her near namesake, born just before this book was published) never went to school!The book has a plot. It's not a spoiler to say that Elisaveta is kidnapped by her father's evil cousin (and, under Salic Law, heir presumptive), and Joey goes and rescues her, walking 25 miles in one day on challenging Alpine paths with only bread rolls and a fruit tart for sustenance. Miraculously, Joey doesn't end up at death's door as a result.It's fun to read and there are so many likeable characters along with the loveable main ones. It's also easy to take the mick on these books. This was published 90 years ago, and for children. Therefore, we should we read it with this point-of-view in mind. I can't expect complex characters or convoluted plots. It may well be that when I first read this I was still at Primary School. We can't expect the sort of candour we would now expect in books for about teenagers. I won't labour this point but I am so looking forward to Dr Jem Russell in particular and the Chalet school adults discovering the germ theory of disease. Colds are not caught by being out in the cold!As mentioned above, Prince Carol is very enlightened in giving his daughter an education, and the King moving to change the Salic Law so that Elisaveta can be heir is also modernist - although monarchy is outdated and I can't remember from childhood readings whether Belsornia survived World War 2 and became a Soviet or Yugoslav colony.I also admire that Juliet is set to go to University College London to read Mathematics. Skip over the unlikelihood of her being taught to a sufficiently high level to get entry (in Maths or in supporting Science subjects). Don't mock that her ambition stretches no further than returning to the Chalet School to teach - this wasn't unusual for the time. Celebrate that in the 1920s, EBD was telling young girls that there are academic possibilities. This is good stuff!I'm very much looking forward to The Head Girl of the Chalet School
Easily one of the most dramatic books in a very dramatic series (that includes mountain rescues, avalanches and escaping the Nazis), The Princess Of The Chalet School is an enjoyable if rather over-the-top read. We meet a honest-to-goodness princess in the Chalet School universe - Elisaveta of a fictional Belsornia - and watch as she becomes a proper little schoolgirl in the Tiern See, even as her mad uncle Cosimo plots to improve his prospects in court.It's all quite outlandish, to be fair, albeit fairly well-executed. As always, Elinor M. Brent-Dyer's deft characterisation works a treat. She creates a surprisingly deep dynamic within the Belsornian royal family: the widowed Crown Prince Carol adores his daughter; the King begrudges the fact that she was not born a boy. Brent-Dyer somehow manages to embed this story, rife with courtly intrigue and politics, into the daily concerns of the Chalet School.There's also something to be said for how surprisingly feminist Princess is, for a book published in 1927. The series often comes under fire - often deservedly - for perpetuating gender stereotypes and rewarding its female protagonists with marriage to doctors and many years of child-bearing. That's definitely true, but there's no doubting either that Princess, as with many of the earlier books in the series, clearly demonstrates that its female protagonists are independent-minded and well capable of taking care of themselves - and others. Brent-Dyer's heroine, Joey Bettany, comes wonderfully to the fore: her mad rescue of Elisaveta from one of Cosimo's plots (for mad it is) nevertheless establishes her as a strong, effective character. The problems of the Belsornian royal family are wrapped up in a very forward-thinking way too.Most enjoyable of all, as always, is the family atmosphere Brent-Dyer has constructed around this School of hers. The relationship between Joey and her elder sister Madge - poised as it is on the cusp of a big change, with the latter finally getting married to Dr. Jem - is as tender, sweet and real as ever. The love the sisters have for each other is perhaps one of the most enduring and endearing hallmarks of this series, and it shines through beautifully here.
One of my favourite Chalet School books (I love almost all of the ones I've read). Brent-Dyer connects a number of plotlines (Elisaveta, Matron, Madge) and makes them very much part of one term - there's no disjointed sense of 'this happened. Then that happened. Term ended' that sometimes characterises school stories. The Cosimo plotline doesn't have to be massively realistic - the use of a fictional kingdom situates it firmly within the story, and so it works really effectively as an adventure.I did blink a few times at the (view spoiler)[mention of dispatching Cosimo to the fortress, and then his subsequent demise (hide spoiler)] - I wonder if that was an intentional implication, or whether I've just got a suspicious mind...
An early Chalet School book, it is one of the most beloved in the series, but one of the least interesting, in my opinion. Elizaveta escapes her wicked uncle, who is trying to usurp the throne of fictional kingdom Belsornia. Too much emphasis on Elizaveta's rescue by the intrepid Jo, and not enough on character development. In my opinion, the best books in the series deal with the adjustment to school life of a misfit girl, perhaps one who is lonely, arrogant, peculiar, etc. One good example is _Eustacia Goes to the Chalet School_, in which Eustacia has to go through a traumatic hiking experience before finally becoming Stacey!
The very first one I read... and I didn't like it! My friend Jo had the entire series and lent me it - not sure why this one and not the first. I wasn't a huge fan, but later on I picked up Summer Term at the Chalet School to give the series another go, loved it, and the rest is history. :) I of course read Princess again but still wasn't a huge fan.
I REALLY enjoyed reading this lovely Girls Gone By edition of one of my favourite Chalet School books. I could not even tell you how many times I have read 'Princess' over the years, but what a lovely treat to read this beautiful uncut, unabridged version, after reading the Armada version so many times. The front cover illustration is beautiful. Also enjoyed the article by Adrianne Fitzpatrick on Matrons, Good & Bad.
This is one of my favourite books in the whole series. We get more character development and the introduction of a more worldly feel. In Elsaveta we find a really nice character who has to live a very resticited life until she comes to the Chalet School. Here we see her bloom and start to enjoy her childhood. She makes friends, goes on adventures - some more hair raising than others - becomes involved in helping the pupils rid the school of someone. Joey is to the fore as Elsaveta's friend but not in a pushy fashion. Joey has to come to terms with changes in her own life that will be hard for her to get used to. We meet old friends and lose some loved characters. If you are looking for a school series I would recomend The Chalet School.
"The Force of Circumstance" is a story which tells about a man, Guy, and his wife, Doris. They live in Malaysia. Guy moved there right after his schooling and lived there for years. He left once and he came back with his wife, Doris. At first they are very happy but once Doris notices a young Malay woman with three half-caste children hanging around the bungalow and annoying Guy very much. Then she learns from Guy that he had a relationship with the woman and that that children are his. Doris needs time to consider this shattering news, but almost nothing has changed. Doris refuses to share her bedroom with Guy and the atmosphere is strained. Eventually Doris returns to England because she can't accept the idea that her husband has had an intimate relationship with another woman.To my mind, this novel deals with the ability to overcome prejudices and accept the hard life challenges. Also this story tells us about making a right choice. We can see how hard it is for Doris to take a right decision. Doris is shown to us as a strong woman: she tried to forgive her husband even despite the fact that it wasn't an easy task. The story is not written in the first person, we read the novel on the narrator's part. The language use is normal and the story itself is a little bit ironic.To conclude, I d'like to say that I enjoy reading Maugham Stories because in his novels he describes not only the situation itself but also characters and their behavior in hard situations.
Excellent book about life in the far east during the days of empire!!
I chose to read this after my visit to the Raffles Hotel Long bar in Singapore where Maugham use to have many a tipple and gather gossip to base his stories on. According to the historian at Raffles Hotel Maugham use to ask for a table to be set up behind a frangipani tree out in the courtyard where he could overhear stories of intrigue, lust and murder. All the stories in THE CASUARINA TREE have similar themes running through them – class division, racism, adultery and cultural belief differences. The six stories are:Before the Party – What really happened to recently widowed Millicent’s husband in Borneo?P & O – On a cruise back to England a man finds out what happens when one betrays a native mistress.The Outstation – A bitter battle of the classes, two work colleagues in a remote office in the jungle fight for dominance with only one possible outcome. The Force of Circumstance – When Guy brings his newly married English rose Doris to his home in Malay she is not prepared for his past.The Yellow Streak - Returning from an upriver meeting Izzart is charged with the safety of Campion – when they face death in a tidal bore the outcome leaves one of the men full of guilt and fear of his cowardice being discovered. The Letter – mild-mannered Leslie Crosbie is on trial in Singapore for the murder of a man who she says was attempting to rape her while her husband was away. Her lawyer expects her acquittal to be just a matter of a rubber stamp – then the letter is discovered. I was enchanted with all these stories – another time and place entirely. Sure we can look back and say how dreadfully racist, snobby and sexist life was then – but that is how it was. I have another Maugham book on the go at the moment.
This is a collection of short stories about the English abroad during colonial times. I particularly enjoyed 'The P&O' and 'The Force of Circumstance' but most of other stories left me a little underwhelmed. Overall I thought it was an interesting depiction of colonial life at the time and reading it was an easy way to pass the time while waiting for dinner to cook (each story is 30-40 pages long).
Six wonderful stories full of drama and tension, ideally read while lazing on the verandah at sundown, sipping a gin pahit or stengah
Currently in this play. I'm playing Big Mary!
Period show business play that still holds truths for today.
One snippet of dialogue has two struggling actresses discussing how another actress of dubious talent managed to get cast in the play they just attended. “Sure, everybody on Broadway know,” says one. “The trouble with us is we’ve been hanging on to our virtue.” This seems to be the main concern with the, as many as sixteen, young ladies who board at The Footlights Club, not to mention any of the gentleman who come a-calling. Olga, the pianist chaffs at playing tin pan alley after having studied classical technique for fifteen years under Kolijinsky. Kaye is fleeing from a dream gone sour. Louise trades her dreams for the domestic life. Terry and Jean wrestle with the allure of Hollywood vs. the purity of live theater. Edna Ferber and George S. Kaufman deftly incorporate several side stories that enich the primary tale of Terry Randall’s pilgrimage. What may seem like a dated story, coming from 1936, still has relevance for today.
High School Drama teachers ought to keep this play in mind which has lots of female parts thus making it ideal for a student production. The level of sophistication is also well suited teenage actors in that the characters have sufficient depth to offer a challenge to their developing skills.The play itself is simply a compilation of all known clichés about life in the theatre as it contains starving actors fiercely competing for parts, banal dialogues, two-faced critics, vulgar audiences, roués who prey on innocent young actresses, and bankrupt troupes. In other words, Stage Door states that there is no business like show business with extraordinary energy and occasionally great wit.Applaud loudly if your kid lands a part in the play; otherwise, you are well-advised to stay home.
This is the literal struggle of a Broadway actor trying to be noticed. All aspiring actors can relate. Doing this play in school next week and playing as Ellen Fenwick, not a huge role but like I said this play is about the struggle of at least getting a role you want or a huge role.
ok story of wanna be actresses in NY
I very much liked this book. Unlike other biography's about Abe Lincoln that tell about him being a president this one goes deeper. though out this book it foreshadows that he would become the president but even to the end never said it. This book is just plainly about Abe growing up. It starts before he is born and ends when he is an adult and leaves his family to make a life for himself. Over all this book was really good, and even though it doesn't have as many pages as books I usually read it has a lot of good information.
In his book "Abe Lincoln Grows Up", noted author Carl Sandburg examines the heritage, birth and early years of America's 16th President. Born to poor but industrious parents, Thomas Lincoln and Nancy Hanks, on February 12, 1809, near Hogdenville, Kentucky, Lincoln was a product of the western frontier. At seven years of age, young Abe's parents moved to the fertile lands of Indiana. There, Lincoln loses his mother to the "milk sick". Shortly after her death, young Abe's father Thomas returned to Elizabethtown, Kentucky, and married the widow Sarah Bush Johnston, who became a loving and supportive mother to Abe. She brought with her three children from her prior marriage who became young Abe's step brothers and sisters. Sandburg employes a unique style to recount the significant events of Lincoln's early life. He presents young Abe to the reader in the context of extraneous events, notable people and western lifestyle of the time to paint a portrait of the rustic life Lincoln must have known in his youth. While facts are presented, there us much postulation as to how things might have been. Sandburg seasons his narrative with western lingo, idioms, stories, songs and lyrics, neighbor gatherings, religious practices, Jacksonian politics, etc. to portray life as Lincoln likely knew it in his early years. As young Abe grew into adolescence, Sandburg describes Lincoln's stature, ruddy appearance and brute strength developed by his use of the ax and other farm implements as he cleared the land and helped his family eke out a living. His sheer height (6'4") and lanky build set him apart from his peers and gave him a formidable appearance. Sandburg often deviates in his narrative to discuss other frontier notables of the age: Daniel Boone, Johnny Appleseed, John James Audubon, Mike Fink, etc. These characters give added flavor to the age in which Lincoln was born and lived. Not only was Lincoln a man of the soil, but he also operated flatboats to carry people and cargo on the western rivers. One trip took him to New Orleans where he witnessed the auction of Negro slaves. This experience had a profound effect upon his life and values. Lincoln's early penchant for reading is extolled. The book concludes with young Lincoln leaving home in the early 1830s to seek his fortune in New Salem. Though the book is touted for young readers, they may find it a bit difficult at times. Sandburg's style is not always sequential and straight forward, but is often scattered and disjointed and not easy to follow and assimilate. Sandburg seems to presume that the reader knows more about the times, persons, places and age than may be the case with young readers. That being said, the biography is informative, colorful and a great read.
Early years of Abraham Lincoln growing up in midwest US in its midgrowth as a nation, with log cabins on one hand and slavery on other on southern plantations. Illinois and Kentucky were border states, often with families divided on the issue, neighbours and communities deeply divided. Lincoln grew up around the border in Illinois and went on to be the silent great man whose great speech post US civil war and bringing in emancipation was then derided for being not long enough, not flowery enough. Now it is a classic memorised by children of his nation.
i read this as a child and it inspired a lifelong fascination with lincoln. i found his complete 5 volume set of the war and prairie years on ebay will try and give it a go in the next couple of months. lincoln grows up is a charming book i would recommend to anyone, especially young readers. i actually bought my copy years ago in the little gift shop at sandburg's home in NC.
This was an easy book to read and to understand. I personally was not overly interesting in the topic, but for those of you who like reading about history will really enjoy this book. This book does a good job of portraying the idea that anyone, even the poorest of poor, can do anything if they set their minds to it.
I finished this wonderful book.
Abe Lincoln one of the best presidents of all time. Carl Sandburg has made a some insight to Lincoln's childhood. It wasn’t the greatest book, mostly because it doesn't always talk about Lincoln, but about people who Lincoln talked about. When it does focus on Lincoln, it teaches you about parts of his life you might not know about, like what happened to him during his childhood. - JH
This is a beautifully written and illustrated book. This slim volume is a reprint of the first twenty- seven chapters of Carl Sandburg's "Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years". It is a true classic, with original illustrations by James Dougherty. These early chapters were selected because it was felt that they would be most interesting to young readers, so the book is usually found in the youth non-fiction area. I throughly enjoyed it. This is also the story of America as it "grows-up" along with Abe Lincoln. Interesting stories of barefoot Johnny Appleseed, clothed only in a coffee sack with holes cut for arm holes, and newly elected corncob smoking President Andrew Jackson, who sweeps an aristocratic administration from the White House with his rough buckskin manners and supporters. Easy to read. Hard to put down.
This version reads like a juvenile version and is a quick read of 222 pages. However, it is rewarding for its portrayal of early Allegeny Americana. Not surprisingly, Sandburg is intrigued by the words and idioms of the frontier as well as their songs. A short vignette of Andrew Jackson is included, suggesting his influence and inspiration for young Lincoln. It doesn't hurt that much is made of Lincoln's reading and love of books. There is the poet's sensitivity to nature, wilderness and words exhibited in his prose and narration. Its age is reflected in the use of the N word when referring to slaves. The quadroon and octoroon children of slave-owners were, at least sometimes, also treated as slaves - a consequence of the immense moral cancer of slavery.
We just finished reading this book. I really liked it because it's about one of my favorite CHRISTAN men in history. It starts from when he was born to before he went to New Salem. There's is also another book about him that we just finished too that is about him in New Salem. I love the state of IL and what makes it ten times better is tha it's the land of Lincoln. :D HEHE
A great read that gives us information on one of the united states presidents. This book tells of Abe Lincoln's life as a young child. From reading this book I now have a better understanding of young Lincoln's life.
This reprint is taken from a portion of Carl Sandburg's Pulitzer Prize winning 1926 biography of our 16th President (Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years). In the Publisher’s Note from this edition, it is said that since 1926, “…it has become increasingly evident that the book lives for people of all ages and kinds; but the later chapters on Lincoln’s political life are of necessity less interesting for boy and girl readers of today than the earlier ones about his own boyhood.” This segment of Sandburg’s work, from the first twenty-seven chapters of the original, depicts Lincoln’s life from birth until age nineteen. Without a doubt, Sandburg continues to stand the test of time. His prose is both eloquent and evocative, and this abridgment is simple enough for the grade-school student without losing any of the charm or grace of the original. This is highly recommended for children interested in almost any aspect of post-colonial American history. For a child interested in Abraham Lincoln himself, this book is essential. (Ages 10-14)
carl sandburg is antique enough that some of his stuff transcends corniness. but a loooot of it is still corny. still you can't stop me from reading YA biographies of abe lincoln.one thing that fascinates this about me is insistence on singing the body of abe lincoln -- he has to be socially/economically "virile" in the sense of winning at rastling, out-chopping, while still pursuing bookish interests. works as a post facto campaign biography. weems' biographies of george washington and francis marion come up as some of yung abe's preferred reads, and there's a (lightly) ironic echo of that secular hagiography happening here. anyway good if you want to know what cows and people were dying from in 1820s indiana, and also if you are stealing texture for your own work
For a great panoramic view of Bible doctrines this is a great read
This is an outstanding book written by Lewis Sperry Chafer, the founder and former president of Dallas Theological Seminary. Each of the 52 chapters is concise, clearly outlined, and packed with scripture. If every Christian just had a basic understanding of each of these vital doctrines, how much better off would the church of Jesus Christ be today! I have read through it several times and purchase it for all of our church leaders, teachers, and those I'm discipling.Highly recommended!
A great introduction to biblical doctrine.
This is a great survey study of theology. Not perfect, but really, really solid and approachable. Worthwhile for any small group, or individual, who is interested in beholding Christ through Scripture. A wonderful, lovingly written tool.
A truly interesting and easy to comprehend look at Trobriand Islander' laws and custom. However, it is more of an overview of general practice, including a few case examples. There were parts I had wished more fully explored (such as the magic practices), though I am sure there are other works on these practices.I had to read this book for an Anthropology assignment and was pleasantly surprised to discover that the writing was far easier to digest than many modern academic writings.
A superb gift of a book as far as lyrical beauty and storytelling prowess. Hemingway of the Caribbean, if you'll allow. The beautifully rendered patois makes this book nearly qualify as a foreign language and encourages readers to slow down. Incredible imagery and often very funny.
Tropic Death is vivid, lyrical, harshly real and at times quite moving. However first it should be warned that the language is very arcane for a modern reader. Though short, it's not a leisurely read. The book presents a collection of short sketches from around the Caribbean and Central America, and (despite being publicized as a literary contribution of the Harlem Renaissance) it presumes a high level of familiarity with the geography and social climate of the region. Here is an extract from the beginning of the short story "The White Snake": On the banks of a bilgy lamahau, the eeliest street-stream in Bordeaux, a row of Negro peasant lodgings warmly slept. It was a vile, backward crescent reeking in brats and fiendish lusts. Cocabe among its inkish rice-growers extended to gorillas sentenced to the dungeons of Surinam, Portuguese settlers who'd gone black, Chinks pauperized in the Georgetown fire of '05 and Calcutta coolies mixing rotie at dusk to the chorus of crickets and crapeaux moaning in the black watery gut. The cast is mainly black, the short stories covering towns in Hondouras, Barbadoes, Guinea and Panama. White characters rarely appear except in roles of policing authority, and instead Walrond's focus is on the strained race-relations between coloured groups. As in the block quote above, the narrator's casual use of ethnic slurs like "Chink" ("Cholo", "Nigger", "Chiggah-foot") are frequent. All human relationships are pressurized and tensions are continually suspended. Walrond's focus is divided between the fertile landscapes of the region and the everyday stresses and earthy wit of the black peasants / immigrant workers. This is especially thematic in the title story "Tropic Death", in which a middle class black child, Gerald Bright, is repeatedly interrupted from his hobby of staring at the sea to be immersed in the problems of the poor children around him and the troubled reunion of his mother and father. The romantic descriptions of the climate are lyrical but seem to always burden the characters with more problems: Sunday came. The sun baptised the sea. O tireless, sleepless sun! It burned and kissed things. It baked the ship into a loose, disjointed state. Only the brave hoarse breezes at dusk prevented it from leaving her so. It refused to keep things glued. It fried sores and baked bunions, browned and blackened faces, reddened and blistered eyes. It lured to the breast of the sea sleepy sharks ready to pounce upon prey. (from "Tropic Death")The frequent descriptions of the white quarries of 'marl', a kind of limestone, also have the same oppressive effect on the writing. Death by arbitrary accident and disease is never far from possibility in these collections of thrown-together people. There is so much dispute and grievance and aggressive heat in the book that it's a fairly downbeat experience, all round. The occasions of contented leisure and friendship, such as at the start of "The Wharf Rats", are in short supply - usually relations are stern, worried or physically aggressive. Few characters are particularly likable, as a result, and the novel has no real psychological depth. I had to take the qualities of the moods and pictures over the lack of detailed characterisation. But having said that, the unnecessarily phoneticised Caribbean creole dialogue alongside the elaborate prose lead to serious issues of reading flow. I made a little glossary as I read that I would have benefited from had I known from the start:uman = "woman"picknee = "child"cyah = "care"the gap = "mine"unnas = "your"fi' = "to" (infinite)fomembah = "remember"marl = a kind of limestonebajan = person from Barbadoesbackra = white elitecholo = native american (Latin slur)It's an enjoyable read, despite it's difficulties, anyway. Tropic Death provides a vivid series of glimpses into the lives of people usually in the background of such exotic novels. Reading it, I thought that the style was strikingly similiar to Joseph Conrad, but rather than following Nostromo's jeopardised mine-owners, it follows the lives of the people in in the Sulaco pits, or digging the grand Panama Canal project for the highly financed European industrialists. The itinerant nature of the short-story narrative dovetails with the rootless characters Walrond portrays, and shows a sort of life that isn't lived in fixed, stately buildings, but in suitcases and crowded ferry-trips: In constant attraction to limited opportunities.
An essay about reading and critique by the author of one of my all time favorites: A Room of One's Own. If you have any interest in the place of women in writing, Woolf set the bar for how to talk about it more than eighty years ago.
Grade: 90% / 'A-'
Funny, sad, outrageous... a brutally honest snapshot of Moscow and moscovites, not without some unclean forces in the mixture... More of a satire than M&M.
A wonderful recollection of childhood memories from a kid that will become Natzume Soseki's student. The life of a child in Japan before the first world war, so beautifully written that even the cruelest moment seem to be happy.Una meravigliosa raccolta di ricordi d'infanzia di quello che diventerá poi uno studente di Natzume Soseki. La vita di un bambino in Giappone prima della Prima guerra Mondiale, scritto cosí bene che anche i momenti piú crudeli sembrano ammantati di magia.THANKS TO EDELWEISS AND STONE BRIDGE PRESS FOR THE PREVIEW!
It's a good book. Russell as usual have this astonishing wisdom about everything and great ideas. But regarding childhood and human being development, nowadays we have more updated knowledge.
Synopsis: Witch Wood is a story of seventeenth-century witchcraft in the Wood of Caledon in the Scottish Borders. The parish minister tries in vain to prevent devil worship and protect his protestant congregation. Meanwhile, civil unrest of the Scottish Wars of the Covenant divides the minister's loyalties. Buchan also weaves in a romantic love story. Review: I bought this book from Treadwells Esoteric Bookstore and was immediately captured by its writing style. It is set in Scotland and, for the most part, deals with a young minister's trials in dealing with the local witches in his village. The "wars" referred to in the synopsis are those that divided the church and, eventually, led to the almost complete eradication of superstitions and pagan practices that continued under the more lax provisions of the Catholic (papist) and other churches.Aside from all this, the story is engaging and Mr Buchan has a very distinctive and somewhat old-fashioned writing style. The reader will notice that all the characters speak with a heavy Scots accent - a dictionary of slang may come in handy. I loved it as a work of fiction and will be keeping my copy to read on dark, windy and wintry nights (oooh, spooky).
Gave up after 30% - so much time spent trying to understand the Scots spoken that I was beginning to hate the book.
John Buchan has written a masterpiece of fiction dealing with human fear and superstition and the strangeness of courage. The story is of a small village in Scotland during the rule of the "Kirk". Complete with witch hunts, both faithful and farcical, Pharisees and prophets, soldiers and cowards, the story follows a young minister trying to lead his little flock out of many kinds of idolatry and into the light. Buchan's character development is perceptive and careful, which always makes a story more worthwhile. When I can find myself empathetic even to the antagonists in the story without compromising my loyalty to the protagonist, I believe I have found an author who understands mankind.
I'm a young minister in a Reformed Church. This book is terrifying. It's real. I think I should change my name to David Sempill. Don't read it. It's too good.
4.5
I had read this novel many, many years ago and the pervasive atmosphere of the setting has stuck with me through hundreds of other books I've read since then. Set in Scotland, but steeped in the similar traditions and brooding landscape of Washington Irving's  The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, Witch Wood tells the story of a young minister, David Sempill, who witnesses diabolical goings-on in the the woods near his new parish. Members of his congregation are caught up in sinister "extra-curricular activities" and the majority of the story revolves around the twists and turns that occur when someone in the right goes up against those in the wrong who are firmly entrenched and protected by the establishment.I have read many stories that utilize the Scots language but I still struggled with this novel at times - the dialogue is extremely prevalent and despite the fact a glossary is available at the back, I found on occasion the dialogue disrupted the flow of the story so much that I forgot the purpose of the paragraph and instead had to focus on the meaning of each word. Despite that, however, this story is an important one to understand the influences that politics can have on distorting the truth and corrupting the notion of goodness and I would highly recommend it.
I loved this book, but I have been lucky and have read Sir Walter Scott's early novels on Scotland. Buchan takes no prisoners & thus has minimal explanation on language used and the historical period. Wikipedia became my friend when I decided to study up on the religious wars of England & Scotland. Such a nasty & intolerant period.The story is based on fact - from a pamphlet found by Buchan - but he changed the hero significantly & added local colour. If you are a fan of late 19th century literature, then go for it & you will enjoy the novel & the themes expounded. If Dan Brown is more your thing, avoid this like the plague because you will hate it within 5 pages.
Loved it! Once I got past the Scottish speech patterns, I could just get involved in the story and deep issues; love, church over King, application of the Word in life, Reformed theology gone very wrong. I love most of Buchan's books and this one is different than the others. It is not just an adventure. I actually had to look up words! (in a dictionary). That is a good thing. Not for the faint of heart, but I would recommend this one.
Pagan rightsBuchan has taken the hint of a childhood tale and turned it into a gripping adventure story, the like of which he does so well. But this is largely an adventure of the spirit as a 17th century Presbyterian minister wrestles with pagan stirrings in his own session: the disapproval of the Kirk authorities: the rights and wrongs of warring factions and not least his own conscience. He finds and then loses resolution in human romantic love before taking up his true calling. The action is page turning, though the descriptions of settings is from an earlier, Victorian age when words were still supposed to conjure up visual images and don't demand closer reading. So too the Laelan' Scots dialogue may mystify some though there is a glossary. The psychology is all the minister's but other characters are colorfully drawn. All in all it's a fine critique of politics and religion while reverberating within the individual psyche.
Best book I've read in a long time.
John Buchan is one of my favorite authors because he knows how to tell a good story. This one draws on his fascination with Scottish history, especially that related to the religious wars of the 17th century. The protagonist is a young Presbyterian minister, called to his first church in a village that seems to be harboring a witches's coven. David tries to fight the witchcraft, the narrowmindedness of his parishioners, and live a godly life, even if it means helping those in need who are enemies of the Kirk. He develops allies, including a beautiful young woman of royal lineage, a soldier of Montroses's who is considered to be on the wrong side of the Kirk war, and a daft old man. David falls in love, fights the plague, and for his pains he is excommunicated and loses his fiancée to the plague. The various set pieces of the church hearing, the witches' celebration, and village life are well portrayed. The story seems like a version of Hawthorne's "Young Goodman Brown" set in the Scotland of several centuries ago. I would have given it 4 stars but there is a lot of Scottish dialect and the version I had, although it included a glossary, was not helpful enough to understand everything. At its most frustrating it reminded me of the Yorkshire dialect of Wuthering Heights.
This book is about the struggles of a Presbyterian minister in eighteenth century Scotland. I found the style and subject matter absolutely fascinating, but there is a quite a bit of dialogue written in Scots' dialect, so parts of it were very slow to read. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction and/or Scotland. Buchan's writing reminded me a little bit of a more intense and less fanciful George MacDonald.
This book is truly awesome. True, there are passages that took some interpreting (the broad Scots dialogue for example) znd the book leaves you angry at the injustice that is ultimately done. At the start, you do assume that things will work out alright, but the bleakness of the ending shocked even me. I loved the fact that it was not predictable, and adored many of the characters, and admired the ending. I will certainly be reading more Buchan.
It occurs to me, having read this last year and recommended it to another couple of people only this week, that I never got around to telling you why I loved Witch Wood quite so much. Which is to say, to the extent that if I were John Buchan, I'd be kind of annoyed at only being remembered for The Thirty-Nine Steps. Let it be known that I adore The Thirty-Nine Steps. It's just that I think Witch Wood is better, cleverer, and way more important. Apparently it was Buchan's favourite of his own novels. It's a crying shame it's been overlooked so much.It's seventeenth century Scotland. The Civil Wars are in progress, and the King is still doing pretty well for himself; this being a matter not very long after the National Covenant was signed in Scotland, nobody north of the border is very happy about it. Leading the discontent is the Presbyterian Kirk, which at this point is militantly anti-Royalist. In the Scottish Borders, a new minister finds himself caught between loyalty to his own Kirk and the de facto government of the King, trying to do the best he can for the people of his parish.At the same time, he discovers that some of his church elders are performing devil worship in the woods. Hogg's   Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner discusses similar themes: if you could do anything at all, and still be guaranteed a place in heaven, what would you do? Hogg's character embarks on a grand career of serial killing people he doesn't like. (It's a great book, you should totally read it. Scared the crap out of Edinburgh when it was published, on account of James Hogg using the idea of found footage a clear 170 years before The Blair Witch Project). In Witch Wood, for the parishioners, their membership of the Kirk and consequent access to heaven is great news: they can carry on doing all the pagan rituals they used to engage in for generations, now with added Christian-tinged devilish theme. They're a poor, uneducated people, torn between the old and the new, and the Kirk represents both of those things and neither of them. Sure, the Game of Thrones-style history is fun, but someone has to live under the rule of this stuff, and nobody thinks to explain to them what any of it means. Also, they're probably dying of typhoid.What's a young, inexperienced priest to do? There are souls at stake here! Is it worth sacrificing yourself, with all the material good you could do in such a difficult, politically charged time -- just to save a few immortal souls? Is David Sempill brave, or cowardly? Doing the right thing, or desperately ineffective? Seeing the bigger picture, or missing what's really important? Did he make the right decision?Buchan writes Scottish lowlands that he knows well; he writes them beautifully and without the Walter Scott romance we see in The Thirty-Nine Steps. Witch Wood is dark. It's fascinating. It intelligently explores things that are important and interesting today, as well as being the part of Scottish history that -- let's face it -- is one of the reasons I moved up here. This stuff is like catnip to me. You can get it on Kindle for cheap. I swear you won't regret it.  "What do your Presbytries and Assemblies or your godly ministers ken o' the things that are done in the mirk? What do they ken o' the corps in the kirkyairds buried o' their ain wull wi' their faces downwards? They set up what they ca' their discipline, and they lowse the terrors o' Hell on sma' fauts like an aith, or profane talk on the Sabbath, or giein' the kirk the go-by, and they hale to the cutty-stool ilka lass that's ower kind to her joe. And what's the upshot? They drive the fold to their auld ways and turn them into hypocrites as weel as sinners."(Edited December 2016 to fix my heinous historical inaccuracies. I should read this again, it was fab.)
When I started reading this book, I wasn't so sure. There was a lot of dry dialogue and a bit of a language barrier.As I continued it got better and better until I was reading quite a bit every day. It's both encouraging and thought provoking. It is also theologically sound. The main character is likable (A pastor that isn't a wuss? How cool is that?) and not too perfect, leaving room for moral dilemmas.Definitely read it.
A powerful story (a favorite of CS Lewis) about a young and idealistic minister, David Sempill, set in 17th century Scotland with the Monmouth rebellion as the backdrop. As David grows into ministering to his congregation he finds a coven of witches and warlocks being led by the most powerful and influential of his flock. As David sets out to spiritual battle he finds an unlikely ally in a young noblewoman, Katrina Yester, who is both a source of goodness and a symbol of grace over against a church more interested in political power.This is truly a strong and effective story in which power, doctrinalism, formalism, and moralism become gods while mercy and justice become mere abstractions. The discussion on Calvinism between David and Mark Kerr is by itself well worth the read. Witch Wood is a powerful sermon against religiosity and for true and pure religion which visits orphans and widows in their affliction, and keeps oneself unstained from wickedness.
First published in 1927, Witch Wood is a mid-17th century tale about a newly ordained minister taking up his duties in the Scottish Borders parish of Woodilee where he discovers evidence of witchcraft, whilst the unrest that accompanies and follows warfare adds further local complications. Let's be clear, this is witchcraft in 17th century terms, it is not a fantasy novel and you won't find extras from LOTR dashing around the place. Much of the speech is expressed in an attempt at Scottish Border dialect, and this makes interpretation difficult at times. Some of it is even translated in the footnotes, but annoyingly this is usually for words that are obvious by implication whilst other less obvious words are not translated. This novel is, at times, quite dark and a bit of a dirge - it really is poles apart from the gung-ho theatricals of The 39 Steps and yet the high quality of writing makes it an incredible read. Very enjoyable.
This book is fabulous, really great reading. It's about 17th century Scotland: very careful, beautiful, and haunting descriptions of place, thick renditions of the Scottish accent. The place and relative merits of men, the church, and the state; the conflation of the state and religion; the difficulty of distinguishing between truth and appearance; true love; characters vibrantly real with not a hint of caricature or chiaroscuro; all these and more find their place effortlessly and artfully. It seems this was John Buchan's favorite novel.
I must buy copies of the William books for my keeper shelves - delightfully refreshing.
I'm filing these under children's books, but I can't help wondering if they are really more for the grown ups. Great fun anyway. In this one the parents seem a bit more human, so I guess RC was fleshing them out as she went along. Love the humour.
William, man. So good.
Was given this book as a child, this character is hard to hate.......
Ive read half. My goodness this is a masterpiece.Superb writing in all essence. No one writes better than Istrati in terms to seek greatness within modesty..Ive Finished it. Beautiful writing skills.
I´ve read half. My goodness this is a masterpiece.Superb writing in all essence. No one writes better than Istrati in terms to seek greatness within modesty..I´ve Finished it. Beautiful writing skills.
In my desire to find new authors and books to read this year I have read a large number of books written in the first half of the twentieth century. This book written in 1927 falls in to that category. I had only read one other Zane Grey novel, namely "Riders of the Purple Sage" which I enjoyed. Most westerns involve a good guy, a bad guy, a pretty woman and a shootout. Zane Grey, in my experience with only two books does the unthinkable in inserting a sensitive romance in to his novels. The language of the 1920's and the simplicity of the prose makes the book even more attractive. Reading this book made me feel like I was watching an old black and white movie, which based on the last few movies I've watched is not a bad thing.
fun easy one day read
It was a decent enough story, but I found Zane Grey's writing style to be just too much for me to really enjoy the book. The relationships in the book were all so melodramatic! The Indian character, simply named Modoc, was straight from Central Casting. He seemed to have supernatural abilities as a tracker, he often communicated in sign language, and when he spoke, it was usually something quite wise and contained the phrase "heap big..."The most distracting part of the book was that Grey seemed to make a conscious effort to find alternatives to the words "said" and "asked", but he had a main short list of alternates. So the book was overflowing with "queried", "declared", "went on", "replied", "responded" and "rejoined". He even used "soliloquized" at least for times. But the one thing that was more distracting than anything else, was the unbelievable number of times that the characters "ejaculated" something.
I read this book when I was about 12 because it was in my Grandma Frampton's bookcase when I was down in Provo for a visit. She let me take it home to finish it, and she died before I could get it back. It is obviously a western, but I was so caught up in the characters then. Especially the one called Nevada. It describes the lava fields and caves in northern California, and talks about the Klamath Indians. I still have the old book, but it's falling apart. Janice found me a newer edition for Christmas a couple years back. A lot of memories came flooding back as I read through it. True, it amy not be one of the world's best novels to most people, but it stayed with me, and I still like it.
Ben Ide is a wild horse hunter in northern California, who has had his reputation tarnished by rumors that he has become a rustler. An outcast from his family, his only friends are Modoc, an Indian he helped rescue, and a mysterious man that goes by Nevada. When Ina Blaine, Ben's childhood sweetheart, comes home from being away at school for four years, she finds everything changed. Everything that is, her feelings for Ben. However, Ina's father's new business partner, Less Setter, has plans not only for her father, but for Ina. If Ben and his pards can't figure out a way to catch the real rustlers, they may just lose everything.A wonderful, classic western romance. Beautiful descriptions of the American West, written in 1927, for people who had never seen or experienced its beauty and majesty. Not my very favorite Zane Grey book, but it is up there :). The sequel is even better.
Denham Dobie is a unique and unforgettable character.
It's always a treat to stumble across a book by an author I've never read before, only to open it up and discover that what's inside is magic. Rose Macaulay's writing is smart, understated, and deliriously funny in a saucily deadpan sort of way - she had me at the dedication (which I'd quote here but my mom has the book because it was so fabulous I needed to share it with someone pronto.) Denham, the truculent, self-reliant, laconic lead character, has to be one of my favorite female protagonists; I can't help thinking she should be played by the British actress Miranda Hart if this were a movie. Macaulay has an eagle eye for the ridiculousness of social ritual, expertly parodying the cosmopolitan affectations of London's chattering class, and creates a cast of characters who are comic and lovable, yet unsettling at times. Though the book was written in 1926 it doesn't feel dated at all. I enjoyed it immensely, and I'm looking forward to reading Macaulay's (thirty-eight!) other novels.
Denham is an interesting character. She struggles to be herself and live her life the way she wants to but finds that in the end, she must conform to the society that she has been placed into. Interesting perspective on 'high' society.
I learned about Crewe Train by Rose Macaulay from references to it in Andorra by Peter Cameron. My library system acquired a 1926 hardcover edition from Brantford Public Library. This book was a charming speed-read, full of realistic dialogue that kept the pages turning. The story focussed on a young woman, Denham Dobie, who was named after her mother's favourite Buckinghamshire village. Denham grew up in the principality of Andorra yet the book hardly spent any time there. Denham is fiercely independent, loves the country and exploring on her own. She abhors crowds and people in general. I can see how I fell in love with this character. We are two independents who take people literally. Me--to a fault. Denham finds no need to continue, or even have conversations if the topic is agreed upon or is self-evident. Why waste speech by agreeing that it is indeed a rainy day? Denham often instructs her servants not to let anyone in, as she is never in any mood to greet visitors. That doesn't stop visitors from calling, though. In the later chronological context of "calling", Denham thinks:"Telephone. The sort of thing people would invent, so that even being in different houses shouldn't stop them talking to each other."I also identified with Denham because neither of us cares about our own home decor. I have lived in my house for fifteen years and have no intention of ever painting the walls. Denham and I are not party types and we both find it awkward to make small talk in these situations. That explains why I always wait until I am spoken to first before I say anything. So you can see why I found this character irresistible. Macaulay managed to write a novel about a social misfit and made her sound interesting just by being herself.The major dramas in Crewe Train involve Denham's struggles with her own preferences versus the big family social lifestyle of her husband and in-laws. She is always at odds with them and stubbornly refuses to be turned into a social butterfly like her sisters-in-law and aunt. After her marriage to Arnold Chapel she did not want to move to London, for her impression of the city was of keen disapproval:"Denham, with her customary sweeping dismissal of what she did not understand, presumed that Londoners were mostly mad. Obviously, quite obviously mad. They walked along the streets even on the coldest, most disagreeable days, with the slow, halting gait of persons who followed a hearse."Yet at the coaxing of her new family, after several embarrassing parties where Denham spent the entire evening stone-faced, she concedes and tries to be more sociable. She is encouraged to strike up conversations at parties by talking about the latest book she had read, yet this attempt, too, backfires. When Arnold suggests she try this, she replies:"'The only thing I've read lately,' Denham said, 'is that book on dog diseases. I could talk quite a lot about Isaac, I think. His coat's coming out.'"At dinner that night, when her neighbour said to her, 'Did you see the Guitrys last week?' she replied, in the manner of Ollendorf, 'No, but the hair of my dog is coming out. Do you know the best treatment for it?'"The young man (whose name was Sitwell) did not, so she told him. She also furnished other information about dogs. He thought it was rather a good game, and when she said, 'Have you ever had a dog with kidney disease?' he replied, 'No, but I have a goldfish with acute neurosis.'"Denham may well indeed be shy and socially awkward, but she is also selfish, unwilling to spend any real effort to work at her skills at hosting parties. You'd think that in a marriage she would learn to compromise with her husband or cooperate with her in-laws, instead of protesting about attending another luncheon yet again. This selfishness goes far enough to affect her unborn baby, whom she miscarried on purpose:"No; she had played the fool and deliberately lost the baby because the idea of having it bored her."and:"A child. What an ambition! Denham simply could not understand anyone wanting such an encumbrance."After this remark I think I oughta tone it down in my enthusiastic rush to identify with Denham. I wonder if her antisocial attitude is perhaps pathological in nature, for nothing ever seems for faze her. Not even a miscarriage, or her choice to live apart from Arnold because she could not stand London any more. There does seem to be a light at the end of her failing marriage when Arnold agrees to move to Buckinghamshire: thus Denham's life in England comes full circle. However even this move, one that Denham encouraged, does not make her happy. Even the refurnishing of her new home--the one she expressly wanted--occupied no interest of hers, however:"Denham was inert and silent through these activities. She felt listless, and did not care whether the bureau stood against the window wall or the opposite one, or whether the Cézanne looked its best over the fireplace or elsewhere, or what the spare bedroom was like (except for an impulse, not uncommon among hostesses, to make this as repulsive as possible, in order to spite visitors for coming to stay)."Crewe Train is teeming with incidents where Denham battles with the demons of dealing with family and visitors. She would certainly be happy living on her own in a secluded house with minimal fixtures and interiors. (And without risk of giving anything away, this option does become available to her.) Macaulay has created a protagonist and characters whose dialogue mirrors reality. The plentiful dialogue, over ninety years after its first publication, flowed naturally and speedily, and read as if I were eavesdropping on an on-line chat of today. Thus I am led to ask if the author modelled Denham on herself, or if Macaulay was a loner in roaring twenties London. Was Macaulay a young socialite among the London literary set, or did she shun publicity?An independent woman combined with meddling relatives and a husband who cannot fulfil her needs regardless of what he does all combine to make Crewe Train one of the best novels I have ever read. I will certainly look for more books by Rose Macaulay.
It’s not The Towers of Trebizond, but it’s still Rose Macaulay and therefore better than most. Really, Crewe Train is almost worth it for the dedication alone:To THE PHILISTINES, THE BARBARIANS, THE UNSOCIABLE, And those who do not care to take any trouble.What the book is about, finally, is the deplorably civilizing effects of love. You may hide yourself in perfect happiness in a hole in the ground, Macaulay tells us, but love will find some mean way to drive you out of it.
3.5 Denham is a young girl who is bounced from place to place. As she makes her way to adulthood, we see her come into her own, no matter the cost to her family or reputation. A charming and witty book of England in the mid-century.
Every boy should read this book-it will teach him what is means to be a man.
I find the doctrines this book teaches to be sound and biblical..and real to life. I was raised on 'Pilgrim's Progress', and this book spoke to me in a word picture language I understand...that never feels ridiculous or over-stated. I enjoy both stories, on different levels. To address other reviews, one shouldn't compare the two books as they are not one and the same.That said, not every child would enjoy this story, but I believe that any child who can enjoy Lord Of The Rings could enjoy this book very much. There are some darker elements of this verbal journey, but that makes it all the more "real" and not needlessly "scary".This is a lovely presentation (even with some illustrations) of a classic book that was carefully and attractively made available in ebook format by the Lamplighter company. Do listen to their audio of the story, but don't think you'll get the whole beautiful story unless you read the book.There are beautiful word pictures in this book that brought tears to my eyes, because they so vividly describe God's provision and plans for each of us. This book covers discouragement, serving God in seemingly menial ways and then gives a glimpse of how God rewards those who serve Him, temptations and getting back onto the path, as well as helping others regain the vision they once had of serving God with their all. It's packed with adventure in its truest forms: we seldom see God's providence for what it is when we're in the midst of the journey or at a fork in the road.This book also gives one of the most important things that's lacking in most modern literature: a clear picture of good and evil. The villain, cunning as he may be, is always shown in his true identity after he's made an appearance. There is no gray area in this story, which I believe makes it an excellent choice for literature to be put into the hands of children.
Wow - what a book! It is a lot like Pilgrim's Progress. It follows the journey of Sir Constant as he travels through the challenges of the Christian journey. The writing is wonderful and readable, though old style; when Sir Constant met Christ several times throughout his journey my heart beat faster. All I could do was smile. Some of the challenges and things he faces are so real. All I can say is - read it!
This is one of the best Lamplighter Theatre productions yet!
An absolutely brilliant adventure. Very similar to Pilgrim Progress, but less allegorical and more theatrical. The ending will tear at your heart, and warm it at the same time. I definitely want to re-read this book!
This book was so very good. I definitely was not disappointed by it. It has encouraged me in my own walk with Christ in a few ways in which I shall explain further as I progress with the review. What I Liked: There were a lot of things that I really liked about this story and if I took time to name them all this would be a VERY long review. But, I shall just list a few of them and leave you to read the story for yourself.W.E. Cule wove this story very well. I felt like I was right beside Sir Constant as he journeyed to the City of the Great King. In these stories of the adventures Constant has, it is pretty easy to see what the enemies represented. (I.e., Greed, pride, hate, envy, etc.) It reminded me once again that the Christian's fight is not against flesh and blood, but against the dark powers of this world. Against the things of this world that try to rob us of our relationship with Christ.The key to Constant overcoming his enemies is to keep focused on the Vision of the Face. At times, like all of us, he falls astray and messes up, but is soon set back on the right path by the most gracious and kind King. It really hit home to me of how much a Christian's life is like that. We start out strong and in the assurance of God's love for us, but then as sinful human beings, we mess up and fall, but God is right there to pick us up when we repent and turn away from our sin, lovingly putting us back on the right path.The descriptions in this book were very good. I could see everything as it was happening to Constant and the illustrations that accompanied this book were a nice addition.Over all, this was a wonderful allegory depicting the life of Constant as he strives to live a life to the glory of His King. This book encouraged me and reminded me even more that even though I can't see Him, Jesus is always with me. I can't see behind the scenes how He is always working for my good, but that doesn't mean I shouldn't trust Him. I should ALWAYS trust Him and He is ALWAYS ready to help me. This book was also a very good reminder of the enemies I face every day. That the enemy is indeed real, but by God's strength and grace alone, I can overcome.What I Didn't Like: I don't think there was anything that I really disliked about the book.I give this book 5 stars for an adventurous tale and a wonderfully told allegory of a young knight traveling along the narrow path facing many dangers, but coming out victorious because of His mighty King!
I loved this book ! The message in it is so good. This is something I will definatly want my children to read someday !
Never have I read a book which spoke to me in the depths of my soul quite like this one. Saint Paul tells us to put on the armor of God so that we may be strong in the Lord and able to stand our ground against the attacks of the devil. This book. An allegory, it so beautifully captures the Christian life as a walk so armed, a journey of ever striving to meet the King. It follows the adventures of a knight who ever keeps the memory of the vision of Christ before him, and nearly every sentence is rich with such great wisdom to ponder that you want to stay right there with it forever--but it's so captivating you can't put it down anyway. I HIGHLY recommend this book--it will greatly enrich the way you envision your daily walk with and toward God.
A beautiful book: doesn't seem to matter that it was written a century ago or that I first read it and was gripped by it over half a century ago when I was 9. The Vision of the Face is still as precious, the Way as Splendid as back then. And the stages of the Way are certainly easier to identify with. So glad I managed to find a copy!
This powerful allegory has been compared to Pilgrim's Progress and is often given equal worth and power. I heartily agree.Join a young knight, Sir Constant, on his journey to the eternal kingdom, known as the City Splendid. His trials have always encouraged me, for they speak of how God ALWAYS keeps and guards His own! Sir Constant makes mistakes as well as wins mighty battles for his King. His perilous adventures will keep you on the edge of your seat and inspire you in your own race towards the Kingdom!Cule's style of writing exceedingly beautiful. Younger readers may struggle with it, but anyone 13+ should enjoy its remarkable word pictures and medieval-like dialogue. A must-read for any weary pilgrim in search of his King and the wonderful eternal City Splendid!
In an effort to gain some perspective, I spent this Christmas break rereading old favorites. Incidentally, the first time I read John Buchan's The Dancing Floor, in 2010, was also during a Christmas break. At the time, the story of Vernon, Kore, and Leithen comforted me. An attempt at re-experiencing those feelings and thoughts drew me back to this book.Though I read this book with different - older - eyes than I did the first time around, my hope of comfort was not disappointed. John Buchan writes beautifully. The image of the "mailed virgin", of the soul standing defiantly against evil or unfortunate circumstances, is still one of the most poignant descriptions of courage I've ever read. Moreover, I appreciate its articulation by Sir Edward Leithen, whose general sobriety makes its romanticism stand out all the sharper without veering into melodrama.I think perhaps that's why, even after 6 years, I can still say I love this book so much. It doesn't try too hard to make a point or get through to the reader. It just stands, sober, robust, and unapologetic, and so it pierces the mind almost effortlessly. I wish more books did that.
Enjoyable.
Not one of Buchan's best
A bit of a disjointed read, with the middle section sagging heavily. But as ever with Buchan an interesting portrait of the era - before and after WWI - and class. This one also gets into the whole issue of the clash between Christianity and pre-Christian, pagan beliefs, and how they're conflated with matters of "evil", "witchcraft", "devils" etc. Hence the intro by Wicker Man director Robin Hardy, which provides a solid discussion and context.
Eerie and quite beautiful at moments, this is one of Buchan's best books.
I picked this up in a dusty little second hand bookshop at some point expecting it to be a nice light historical romance. It was a delightful surprise to find something really interesting and quite dark (not that I don't love historical romance). Some parts of the story line left me a bit cold, and the narrative voice was a bit detached for my taste, but it had one amazing theme...Spoiler alert!One of the central characters has this recurring dream of lying in his bed in his bedroom. There is a door at each end of his room and beyond that door stretching in both directions is another bedroom exactly like the one he is in. Somewhere along this chain of bedrooms is something dark and evil. Each year he has this same dream but each year the Thing gets one room closer. He knows exactly how old he'll be when it gets to him.
As always, really enjoyed this novel. Despite Buchan's stereotyping at times, such a powerful story of Christianity vs. paganism.
One of Buchan's best! This book is mystic in nature combined with action and a great plot. This would make a superb movie.
What superstition can do to people! Quite an adventure. I enjoyed this book.
Weird story plot but nice writing style.
One of my favorite adventure books that i have read since childhood. For anyone interested in the Arab world it is a MUST. No way around it. Incredible writing, unbelievable action, made all the more intense by the fact that it DID happen. Great introduction to Arab culture, habits, and viewpoints. All around a phenomenal book.
Beautiful prose as well as everything else about it!
Lawrence wrote his memoirs of the WW1 war against the Ottoman Empire as a 780 page long book "The seven pillars of wisdom" but heavily in debt was forced by his publishers to rush out an abridged version. He hated it and refused to allow even the most basic editing. Consequently it has many different variants on place names, often fails to clarify the vast array of characters in the Arab army or the overall development of the war. On the other hand it conveys brilliantly the characters, countryside, conditions and the day to day action. The British under General Allenby based in Eqypt were fighting a conventional WW1 battle of artillery and massed infantry attacks against the Turks in Palestine. Lawrence, a British Army major, medically unfit for active duty was an Oxford scholar and linguist who excelled at military intelligence. He was sent to work with the Arab uprising in what is now Saudi Arabia and immediately struck up a rapport with the leaders. He was not alone but his leadership, diplomatic and organisational skills saw him continually switching between leading patrols to blow up the Turkish railways, smoothing disputes between Arab leaders, persuading Allanby and his staff to send money, weapons and trained soldiers and providing strategic direction to the Arab leaders. He earned the respect of the latter by in effect becoming one of them, pushing himself to ride great lengths in the most arduous conditions and to be in the thick of the fighting and not least by learning the language and customs so he could mix easily with them. At the same time he worked diligently with Allenby to ensure that the the two groups were fully coordinated and the Turks eventually pushed out of the Middle East. The final chapter on the capture (bloodlessly) of Damascus is particularly fascinating. Whilst everyone else is celebrating, Lawrence is quietly operating behind the scenes to insert the most competent Arab leaders into a new government, ruthlessly eliminating a couple of thugs who try to take over, then reforming a police force, getting the electricity and water supply back on, setting up hospitals, arranging food supplies and cleaning the streets! And the writing is of the highest quality.
4 1/4 stars
#10
T E Lawrence is a fascinating character
Good book!
I absolutely love the movie Lawrence of Arabia (not just cause there are no women in it), and I'm quite intruiged by his writings, so I have to get to them.
Can never get enough of the life of Lawrence.
Truly astounding. The most impressive set of psychological experiments I've ever encountered. If I had been required to read this while doing neuro at Stanford, I would have had a much better education. So many of his ideas are still not appreciated - but should be.
as freud said, too basic.
Easy to understand about individual psychology Nice book.
Highly recommended.
What a amazing book to read,and its very easy to understand.
I became obnoxious to everyone around me whilst reading this book, mainly because - even almost a century after its publication - so much of it rings true. All of us know democracy isn't perfect. Young people in the western world have mostly lost faith in democracy, according to most recent surveys, but it seems to me that we've lost interest in discussing this social experiment and how we can make it better. Some of what Dewey has to say will seem absolutely out of reach in the modern world, and some of it will seem simply naive, but if you can accept the premise about what is broken and what needs to be fixed, then there's a lot to latch onto here. Present day pragmatists have kept Dewey's spirit alive, especially through deliberative democracy, but I do find it surprising that there aren't more of them in academia. Among this group word pragmatism has come to mean, as far as I've seen, either a word that biophysical scientists use when they don't understand what social scientists have to say, or a word to describe research driven by political expediency. While those casual meanings are all well and good, I wish we'd reconnect with pragmatism as a philosophy, and along with that what it has to say about matters that Dewey discusses in this book, like defining the public, exploring the relationship between the public and the state, providing room for conflict and a diversity of legitimate interests, etc. One of my biggest frustrations with the present day view of democracy is that the role of the citizen (and the 'mandate to govern') is boiled down to the act of voting. And then once that flawed process is complete, there's no ongoing dialogue about what we expect (save the clever quips on the internet from otherwise disengaged publics...and disengaged for good reason). This book taught me that this simple view of voting is certainly not new. Even early in the 20th century, he was saying: "...the heart of the matter is found not in voting nor in the counting the votes to see where the majority lies. It is in the process by which the majority is formed. The minority are represented in the policy which they force the majority to accept in order to be a majority; the majority have the right to "rule" because their majority is not the mere sign of a surplus in numbers, but is the manifestation of the purpose of the social organism." The purpose is found through deliberation. Many (including me, on my dark days) would say that deliberation is unrealistic in the modern era, but I'd actually say that the time is even more right than in Dewey's day. Quips and memes on the internet do not have to be the entirety of discussion. We have many more ways to deliberate, but we also have to be sure someone is actually listening, which most of us are not. This book is dense and thought-provoking, but I'd highly recommend it to anyone interested in politics and social science,
My copy is a forest of sticky tabs. For the most part, it's absolutely astonishing that this book was written in 1927: its analysis of our political ills and their technological/economic roots is sharp and accurate today. Dewey argues that mass technologies - industrialism and mass communications - pretty much necessitate the death of citizenship in favor of consumerism, by weakening strong ties and empowering weak ones, while not being blind to the many advantages of the mass age. He's scathing on the subject of Constitution- and Founding Fathers-worship: for him, a constitution is a tool kit for solving a particular set of problems in a particular time and place, and it's just foolish to think those tools can be used in other contexts without adaptation. In discussing the relationship between persons and organizations, he's a little weak: focusing on individual moral responsibility is excellent from the bottom up, but if the 20th Century taught us anything (besides how ghastly bad individuals are at taking moral responsibility), it's that the actions of our tools and institutions don't necessarily link with *anyone's* intentionality, and that that's a necessary aspect of complexity.All in all, brilliant, an engaging read, and blissfully short. A real winner.
This book has so much to offer!!! Dewey is so so optimistic about the public, but I got behind it tbh. If you're uncomfortable with seeing the world through an ideological lens, read up! It may be impossible for his propositions to ever become a reality but a girl can dream ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
You know a book is good when your very first thought upon finishing it is "...damn." And that's "damn" pronounced as "dayum," as in "daaaaayum that's a good book."
This book has so much to offer!!! Dewey is so so optimistic about the public, but I got behind it tbh. If you're uncomfortable with seeing the world through an ideological lens, read up! It may be impossible for his propositions to ever become a reality but a girl can dream \_(ツ)_/
timely as ever!
This is an early elementary level Children's bible. The content and some of the chapters are a little bit longer (so are better for older children), but are much closer to actual bible content. It also adds cultural and historical details. It took us 18 months to get through it reading about 1 story a day. My daughter enjoyed it, but I wouldn't force it on a child if they aren't interested. Wait a little bit for them to have a longer attention span for them to get the most out of it.Reading this again with my son, still very enjoyable and a great prep bible before going straight into actual bible readings.
We love this book. It simplifies the bible stories - but not so much that it takes away educating my children in scripture knowledge. The illustrations are just enough to help create an idea of the stories but not so much that our sons get distracted from a true scriptural education.Post Edit: I just LOVE this children's version of the Bible. I think every home should have it. It is a great way to prepare our children and ourselves to read the Bible. It is succinct, and educational at the same time. I definitely recommend this to every one I know.
I am reading this book with my daughter and so far it is captivating, true to scripture, and easy enough for a preschooler to understand.
I loved reading these stories when I was a child. I enjoyed lugging this book around. It has over 700 pages with stories and resources at the end including questions, colorful maps, and old black and white photographs of Palestine. I still have my copy. The cover on the copy I own is different. The edition that I have was published in 1963.
This is a wonderful storybook of the Bible for all ages with illustrations that are bold and colorful. The stories are biblically accurate with verses cited and not dumbed down like many others like it. A must read for families!
Can you believe some twats on Abebooks and Amazon want $25 for this book?? Jesus, I have never payed over $25 for anything besides rent and a large bulk order of Minoxidil from Amazon.com that I get monthly. Anyways, the book is lacking substance, he uses pompous/condescending language (trademark of Mencken). I think if he and I got in an argument, he would constantly call me "stupid" and a "dumb dumby mcdumber", which of course, I would stare blankly at him and nod pathetically in agreement because I lack a spine and any conviction to defend my rather high school level mentality on politics and culture. I looked up the words he uses and have determined he could use way simpler words while simultaneously applying more style (dumb it down and doll it up Mencken!). Mencken is not an artist, he is some sort of intellect thing. This can contribute to some yawns over some boring history shit (who are these historic figures? What is a "Roosevelt"?!) and some further yawns over some other stuff. In addition, Mencken strikes me as a word nerd (I am the first to admit it is way easier to judge his vocabulary/intellect/etc than to recognize my own lack of vocabulary/intellect/etc and my failure to comprehend such works... whatever... fuck him... he's dead...). Anyways, the man is somewhat clever and a pretty quick read, though I cannot pull away any discernible points that jump out at me as of now (except for below quotes). I think his flamboyant grandiloquent language, once cleared away while reading, leaves not much substance or meat and can be rather redundant. It seems to be just a vain attempt to stretch the books length. What a schmucky prick.. Generally, he throws around some very interesting but very vague ideas, while using fancy words and repetition of basically the same idea...his idea that democracy blows... I feel he lacks in really pinning down these ideas and rather relies on fanciful words to repeat generally that same idea of democracy blowing. This guy really lays into politicians; he hates them and equally hates the ignoramus layman that makes up democracy. Also while reading it, he makes you feel retarded... I can appreciate perspective though. I would highly suggest the read cause its so short (even for a layman ignoramus like myself) and brings up some interesting points; though not many... Much like modern politics and history stuff, the book can be dry and boring at times...MONTEBANK is his favorite word for sure. I counted that the word was used 14 times...I can't believe I took the time to count that word 14 times, I have no life... I do share his hate for humanity, Amen to that...Because I do not belong to the "herd" and am not suffering from "mob mentality", I will give this book 3 stars opposed to the conformist Democratic men of goodreads.com and there conformist ratings of 4-5 stars (Mencken is looking up from hell, nodding in approval for my act of revolutionary individualism and intellect, I am a true rebel in the social networking community of sheep!...I need a drink). Anyways, this shit is just too outdated for the most part, e.g. who the fuck is President Wilson and why do I care? Will knowing him get me discounts on alcohol or get me laid??? Does it reduce my rent?? I have more important things to worry about than democracy and its short comings; for example, is $3 too much to spend on a used turtle neck sweater with a stain on it from the local thrift store and how to part my hair in order to comb over my obvious patchy bald spots that dominate my skull..Seriously, I have the weirdest balding patterns...Throughout the book, Mencken redundantly rips into democracy with no freshness and, of course, no other other solution to dreaded democracy and capitalism (though he is aware of this and makes this clear by stating "My business is not prognosis, but diagnosis" and "To lack a remedy is to lack the very license to discuss disease"). As any other political writing worth reading, his points are based a lot on political psychology and I believe takes some ques from Nietzsche aka Mencken's Mustached Master... (that took me three hours to come up with)...In addition, on more positive note, I thought this was a creative way to create a word: "and there is the art of what may be called, by a shot-gun marriage of Latin and Greek, the dema-slave."...Though I could have totally misread that whole sentence, I thought he created the word dema-slave by "shot-gun marrying" Dema=Latin and Slave=Greek. Also, I think that is the dorkiest observation I have ever written and have probably lost most of my readers (all two of them, one including me and the other my mother that I pester to read my reviews and articles in order to validate my meager accomplishments)...I hope I have not lost "face", mom....Some quotes:"All the revolutions in history have been started by hungry city mobs...When the city mob fights it is not for liberty, but for ham and cabbage. When it wins, its first act is to destroy every form of freedom that is not directed wholly to that end.""The fact is that liberty, in any true sense, is a concept that lies quite beyond the reach of the inferior man's mind. He can imagine and even esteem, in his way, certain false forms of liberty- for example, the right to choose between two political mountebanks, and to yell for the more obviously dishonest- but the reality is incomprehensible to him.""Liberty means self-reliance, it means resolution, it means enterprise, it means the capacity for doing without...The free man is one who has won a small and precarious territory from the great mob of his inferiors, and is prepared and ready to defend it and make it support him. All around him are enemies, and where he stands there is no friend. He can hope for little help from other men of his own kind, for they have battles of their own to fight. He has made himself a sort of god in his little world, and he must face the responsibilities of a god, and the dreadful loneliness.""Viewed thus, it must be obvious that he is still incapable of bearing the pangs of liberty. They make him uncomfortable; they alarm him; they fill him with a great loneliness. There is no high adventurousness in him, but only fear. He not only doesn't long for liberty; he is quite unable to stand it. What he longs for is something wholly different, to wit, security. He needs protection. He is afraid of getting hurt. All else is affectation, delusion, empty words.""The American people, true enough, are sheep. Worse, they are donkeys. Yet worse, to borrow from their own dialect, they are goats. They are thus constantly bamboozled and exploited by small minorities of their own number, by determined and ambitious individuals, and even by exterior groups. The business of victimizing them is a lucrative profession, an exact science, and a delicate and lofty art.""The art of politics, under democracy, is simply the art of ringing it. Two branches reveal themselves. There is the art of the demagogue, and there is the art of what may be called, by a shot-gun marriage of Latin and Greek, the demaslave. They are complementary, and both of them are degrading to their practitioners. The demagogue is one who preaches doctrines he knows to be untrue to men he knows to be idiots. The demaslave is one who listens to what these idiots have to say and then pretends that he believes it himself.""An aristocratic society may hold that a soldier or a man of learning is superior to a rich manufacturer or banker, but in a democratic society the latter are inevitably put higher, if only because their achievement is more readily comprehended by the inferior man, and he can more easily imagine himself, by some favour of God duplicating it. Thus the imponderable but powerful force of public opinion directs the aspirations of all the more alert and ambitious young men toward business, and what is so assiduously practised tends to produce experts. E.W. Howe, I incline to think, is quite right when he argues that the average American banker or buisness man, whatever his demerits otherwise, is at least more competent professionally than the average American statesman, musician, painter, author, labour leader, scholar, theologian or politician. Think of the best American poet of our time, or the best soldier, or the best violoncellist, and then ask yourself if his rank among his fellows in the world is seriously to be compared with that of the late J. Pierpont Morgan among financial manipulators, or that of John D. Rockefeller among traders. The capitalists, in fact, run the country, as they run all democracies: they emerged in Germany, after the republic arose from the ruins of the late war, like Anadyomeme from the sea. They organize and contral the minorities that struggle eternally for power, and so get a gradually firmer grip upon the government. One by one they dispose of such demagogues as Bryan and Roosevelt, and put the helm of state into the hands of trusted and reliable men- McKinely, Harding, Coolidge. In England, Germany, and France they patronize, in a somewhat wistful way, what remains of the old aristocracies. In the United States, through such agents as the late Gompers, they keep Demos penned in a gilt and glittering cage. Public Opinion? Walter Lippman, searching for it, could not find it. A century before him Fichte said "es gar nicht existirte." Public opinion, in its raw state, gushes out in the immemorial form of the mob's fears. It is piped to central factories, and there it is flavoured and coloured, and put into cans.""The man who hopes absurdly, it appears, is in some fantastic and gaseous manner a better citizen than the man who detects and exposes the truth. Bear this sweet democratic axiom clearly in mind. It is, fundamentally, what is the matter with the United States.""...the last joke upon man may be that he never learned how to govern himself in a rational and competent manner...""Democratic man, as I have remarked, is quite unable to think of himself as a free individual; he must belong to a group, or shake with fear and loneliness- and the group, of course, must have its leaders.""...the quest for happiness, as always, brings only unhappiness in the end..."
Here the enfant terrible Mencken takes on democracy, the ostensible rule of the "common man."A bit tongue in cheek, of course, but clever and bitingly written. We won't see newspapermen this great again, alas!This edition is nicely annotated. Some of the period references are obscure.And democracy is highly overrated. Just watch some of Jay Leno's interviews with men-in-the street, and then tell me with a straight face how great universal suffrage is and we ought to encourage more people to vote!
Despite its obvious shortcomings, I'm giving this book the full 5 stars. Notable caveats:First, his language is at times awkward. It's deliberately provocative and fraught with hyperbole.Second, having been written in 1923, it is very dated; that said however, his attacks upon the foolishness, corruption and knavery of the politicians of his day are equally true of the gang we are saddled with today. Third, he states that "The average man doesn't want to be free. He wants to be safe." But this desire for safety and comparative lack of concern about a lack of freedom is in no way unique to democratic man; it's a feature that "strong men" of all stripes have always exploited. It's what keeps Putin popular and in power in Russia. It's a fault of mankind, not of democracy.Finally, having pointed out the ills of democracy, he offers only diagnosis, no prognosis for a cure. He provides no argument that some sort of "benign dictatorship" would be an improvement. We are all aware of lands ruled by monarchs, oligarchs and tyrants that exhibit any and all of the same failings as democracies and are often a great deal worse. Yes, the mob is unfit to rule but so is the king, whether he be a philosopher or not.Despite all of the foregoing, Mencken puts his finger squarely on the fundamental weakness of democracy: the fact that vast numbers of people (the electorate) are self-serving and are susceptible to being bamboozled by slick, simple answers to complex issues; they are comfortable when being told what they already want to believe, truth be damned. Demagogues have always understood this and exploited it. Even though Mencken over-reaches in his praise of the patrician and disdain for the proletarian, there is a disturbing degree of truth in his analysis. After all, millions of supposedly intelligent Americans today choose to believe the lies being told by their own government.This book enraged a lot of liberal democrats in his day because it pilloried their sacred cows. I suspect their anger was enhanced by an uncomfortable realization that much of what he wrote was true.
The more things change, the more they stay the same. After reading Mencken's "Notes on Democracy" it is quite evident how true that is for the US system of democracy. It is also quite evident that corruption and incompetence are a systematic and entrenched feature of our system. Sad, really.Mencken is a beast. Everybody should read his writings. He clearly had his finger on the pulse of what is wrong with both the US governmental system as well as the general populace and their role in "democracy." Mencken in no way places the blame for our democratic ills solely upon government officials, but he evenly spreads it across the general "citizen" as well.In short, Mencken doesn't seem to have a whole lot of faith in humanity...and I don't blame him.It was incredible to see the parallels of issues from the time of writing (1926) until today. From pushing "creationism" in schools to Prohibition to big-money interests to how the system works, it seems very little has changed in terms of "what's wrong."I'm not sure of what the solution really is, and it seems Mencken wasn't either. I think he would agree that an informed citizenry is absolutely critical if "democracy" is to work. Sadly, it seems we are no closer to that today than in Mencken's time. As such, we pay the price with corrupt officials, incompetent decision-makers and democracy which is in serious decay. It would certainly be interesting to see Mencken's take on the state of our democracy today - though, I highly doubt it would be much different.The only "criticism" is that many of his references are to events (and people) that the casual reader might not know of, or understand. However, the footnotes are extremely helpful in this regard. Also, some of his language is a bit flowery at times and seems out of place.Well worth reading for any "concerned citizen."
A cathartic read, and a reminder that history repeats itself. You could replace the names of the past politicians Mencken mentions with today's current crop and the book wouldn't miss a beat.Also, I found the last section very prescient, considering I finished it shortly after the Boston Marathon bombings: "I have spoken hitherto that democracy may be a self-limiting disease, like measles. It is, perhaps, something more: it is self-devouring. One cannot observe it objectively without being impressed by it's curious distrust of itself- it's apparently ineradicable tendency to abandon it's whole philosophy at the first sign of strain. I need not point to what happens invariably in democratic states when the national safety is menaced. All the great tribunes of democracy, on such occasions, convert themselves ... into despots of an almost fabulous ferocity"."Invariably" is right. As relevant today as it was when it was written.
Who is H.L. Mencken and why am I just now reading him!? This book is genius! I started highlighting passages I liked but then realized nearly every page was marked in florescent pink. I'm not going to say this book is for everyone but it is definitely for those of us out there that watch the news and listen to certain groups or leaders thinking, "Seriously are there people out there buying this?" Then we come into contact with those who are in fact subscribing whole-heartily to an idiotic brainless existence. Left dumbfounded we trudge along wondering if there are any 'real' people left in the world.The world was a completely different place in 1926 when Mencken originally wrote this but it doesn't' take long to realize despite our innovations and advancements nearly 100 years later we've made no real progress in terms of democracy. Mencken's insights serve as a reminder to that fact and while the organizations may have changed and the leaders all have new names they are in essence the same. "Public policies are determined and laws are made by small minorities playing upon the fears and imbecilities of the mob-sometimes minorities of intelligent and honest men, but usually minorities of rogues." Hmmmm, rogues you say? Remind you of anyone? If you are of a thinking mind I highly recommend this book but be warned it reads like a philosophy book so if you think you can just pick it up and read a few chapters you're wrong. It will have you thinking and a buzz with every paragraph so make sure you have a good sounding board to bounce ideas off of after reading.(I received this book as part of a giveaway on Goodreads.com I was not in anyway encouraged to give a review that didn't reflect my genuine feelings towards the book.)
Perfect election year reading. Dated in many respects - dismay for democracy in the 1920s had a racial tinge that it doesn't quite have today - but this is actually a learned discussion of the problems of democracy. Mencken was extremely well read, was a devotee of Nietzsche, and, for all his crude language about the "booboisie," had actually put a lot of thought into the dangers of mass democracy.
Great book. Awesome guy. Reading this reminds you that democracy has ALWAYS been fundamentally broken, it's not a recent development.
Mencken is known for his wit, but if this book is any indication, that reputation is completely undeserved. He tries hard to be clever, but fails almost every time. Many admire Mencken for his anti-plebeian elitism. This book is full of it, to be sure, but his is the sort of elitism one might find in an intelligent but immature 15-year-old boy; not a supposedly well-read grown man.On the whole, I found the book unimpressive, predictable and boring. The one salient observation Mencken makes is this: “Man is not happy when free; he is uncomfortable, a bit alarmed, and intolerably lonely. He longs for the warm, reassuring smell of the herd, and is willing to take the herdsman with it”. People aren't interested in the abstract ideal of “liberty”; they want community and a sense of belonging.
I would recommend this book to anybody interested in reading about theories of democracy or early 20th century U.S. History. This particular book is brilliantly annotated. I genuinely enjoyed reading the annotations as much as the book and I can't recall another book I have ever felt that way about. Mencken's writing is accessible and interesting. Nothing is sacred to him and that is refreshing at times. However, he also writes with scathing generalizations and in the end comes off as a journalist of his times, albeit a very intelligent and great writer, but not as somebody who truly captures the finer nuances of either democracy or history. I did enjoy reading this though and definitely recommend it.
Mencken at his finest. A charming, curmudgeonly, and acerbic perspective on American democratic values and institutions. He inspires a deep cynicism in the reader regarding all the rituals and affectations of democracy: voting, politicking, campaigning, and the general idea of social betterment by democratic participation. Democracy may not be the worst form of government, but it's certainly the most humorous.
"Democracy is a pathetic belief in the collective wisdom of individual ignorance."Mencken wrote in the age before public choice theory was developed, and before regulatory capture became a recognized concept. He certainly did, however, anticipate some of their lugubrious findings. The problem of who will watch the watchmen dates back to the Satires of Juvenal, but was a concern even to the ancient Greeks. Mencken aims his fire at democracy. He never questions his tacit assumption of a natural elite among people. To him, that is self-evident. Our American culture, of course, strives mightily to persuade us that it isn't so. Perhaps that is among the noble lies that keeps the rickety wagon of democracy from veering off the road altogether. Mencken describes his role as diagnostic, not therapeutic. He is to be forgiven, therefore, for not suggesting another form of government which might lack the manifest defects of democracy he describes. My opinion is that democracy's one great merit, the fact that makes it preferable to other forms of government, is that it is an imperfect, but surest safeguard against tyranny. Ah, but what about the tyranny of the masses? To protect us from that, we need a Constitution which clearly limits the power of government, and a judiciary which honestly enforces such limits. But even there, we have no surefire guarantee. As Mencken's contemporary, Finley Peter Dunne wrote, "no matter whether the constitution follows the flag or not, the Supreme Court follows the election returns."Mencken appears to have been weaned on a pickle. If you want to read a book of misanthropic musings, cast in charming humor and impressive range of vocabulary, this book is for you.
This is a short book, but a dense and difficult read, especially since it guts America's favorite cultural brass ring- Democracy. Mencken believes Democracy is merely the majority tyrannizing the few. He makes many good points, but as an iconoclast destroys our most liberal and self-congratulatory beliefs. Many of his points are lost in his twisted prose and tangled sentence structure, and his vocabulary requires as much annotation as a high school Milton collection. But battling through it is very rewarding, and I really feel it takes several readings to get the best out of it. And I will get to it.Mencken's premise that civilizations would be better served by a monarchy over democracy will stir the bile of every American patriot. Many of his wild claims would not stand up to much scrutiny. In fact many are so extreme are they border on comedy. If monarchy is the height of civilized government, the people who lived in pre-revolutionary Russia and France might argue. You're never sure how serious he is, but it is thought provoking, which ultimately is his goal.. He utterly destroys many American presidents including heroes Lincoln, Jackson, Wilson, and Roosevelt as just the beginning. Mencken, who never attended college (and claims he is the better for it) is accepted as one of America's great minds. Anyone who questions authority, breaks icons, and is unafraid to give voice should give him a thorough reading. I wish he had been studied more in high school and college, but our culture has swept him under the rug. Funny, in that his observations on the human condition are right on the money for explaining the terrible mess the world is today. I can't wait to get to his next book, and the one after that, and the one after that.....
Mencken has style, wit, eloquence and what not! He's a warrior with a pen, decimating Democracy as a mediocrity , or worse.It was long ago observed that plain people, under democracy, never vote for anything, but always against somethingThe mob, in common practice, sticks to thieves as their leaders, it is only because their words are words it understands and their ideas are ideas it cherishes. It has the power to throw them off at will, and even at a whim, and it also has the means.The typical democrat is quite willing to exchange any of the theoretical boons of freedom for something that he can use. In most cases, perhaps, he is averse to sell his vote for cash in hand, but that is mainly because the price offered is too low. He will sell it very willingly for a good job or for some advantage in his business. Offering him such bribes, in fact, is the chief occupation of all political parties under democracy, and of all professional politicians. The art of politics, under democracy, is simply the art of ringing it. Two branches reveal themselves. There is the art of the demagogue, and there is the art of what may be called, the demaslave. They are complementary, and both of them are degrading to their practitioners. The demagogue is one who preaches doctrines he knows to be untrue to men he knows to be idiots. The demaslave is one who listens to what these idiots have to say and pretends that he believes it himself.
Henry Louis Mencken: a contrarian and master writer, it must be said. The book itself is not only bold in its aim (to discredit and attack that most cherished political institution) but also in the way Mencken goes about it—through a kind of rhetorical violence, an artillery barrage of wit, eloquence and scathing criticism. Does he succeed? Modern democracts would hope not. If my opinion is any indication, however, I would say that Mencken does succeed in his broadest aim: to make the reader think critically about democracy and democratic society. This is not say that his arguments always hit the mark (they do often go awry or miss altogether) but that, in the broad strokes, it is often hard to disagree.From here on the review will be divided into parts. The first will be purely about Mencken in a literary perspective; it will concern his language and writing style. The second part will be about his political points, and will inevitably be more opinionated.  Mencken as a WriterWhat is immediately apparent when reading Mencken is the language. There is simply no ignoring it. His eloquence is breathtaking; his mastery of the American language laudable; and he is wonderfully verbose, his prose turgid and somehow still very readable. To employ one example of many:  I confess, for my part, that it greatly delights me. I enjoy democracy immensely. It is incomparably idiotic, and hence incomparatively amusing. Does it exalt dunderheads, cowards, trimmers, frauds, cads? Then the pain of seeing them go up is balanced and obliterated by the joy of seeing them come down.  You’ll have also noticed that I say the ‘American’ language, and not the English language. This is because Mencken is indeed distinctly American: not only in outlook, but in the idioms and words that he employs. I confess to never having heard of such as terms as mountebanks, bugaboos, dunderheads, or indeed hobgoblins. It is wonderfully amusing.Nonetheless, it must be said that Mencken—like so many talented writers—does at times overindulge. He can be excessively verbose. His prose is at times so full of elaborate wordcraft, Latin phrases, and obscure historical allusions that it leaves one struggling to keep up; indeed, I struggle to understand what he’s even trying to say.Generally speaking, however, this is not the norm. So long as one’s grasp of the American language (or in the case of an English writer like I, the nearby reach of a dictionary) is reasonably secure, Mencken is quite readable.   Mencken as a ThinkerInevitably, the main scope of this review lies with the ideas presented in Notes on Democracy. There are actually a number, and I shall surmrise them briefly for the sake of clarity:  Democracy is the rule of the mob, and the mob are idiots. This is the basic premise that underlies much of his other arguments. Mencken provides two arguments for it: firstly, he argues that it is self-evident on the basis of the decisions that democratic societies actually make. He gives the examples of Prohibition, comstockery (censorship of literature deemed ‘obscene’) and various other historical cases. One can quite easily put anti-trans laws, persecution of LGBT people, austerity and selling off council housing in this category.    Mencken unfortunately tries to take it a step further. He believes that the mob are congenitally idiots; they are born with a limited intellect. This view is undoubtedly influenced by Darwinism (of which he is a great fan), and its bastard cousin, social Darwinism. His view is unfortunately the product of a very early and limited understanding of biology that lacks advanced knowledge of race and genetics. (Menckel is also a racist, likely influenced by the so-called ‘science’ conducted in his day that ‘proved’ blacks were inferior.)      The mob is sovereign in a democratic society, regardless of whether or not it is ‘representative’ and indifferent of how many constitutional hurdles there are. He gives the eighteenth ammendment (Prohibition) as an example.          Democracy is inherently linked with Puritanism; it engages in a great deal of persecution against minorities, heretics, and other such hobgoblins. Menckel believes there are two fundamental causes: envy and fear. Fear of what the average ‘yokel’ cannot understand (such as evolution) and envy of others who have a good time.          Democracy likes capitalism. Capitalism is about greed, self-aggrandisement, and impoverishing the other fellow. This corresponds to the base desires of homo democratus.           And finally, democratic societies will always be lead by demagogues and hacks. Those who appeal to the vagaries and fears of the mob will, as a rule, become the Congressmen, the Senators, and the judges. This will occur regardless of whether the democracy is direct or representative; in the former demagogues will shift and manipulate public opinion in much the same way.       So: do these criticism have any merit? Of course they do. But some more than others. Hence, I will address each of them separately, to begin with.  Are the Mob Idiots?As Menckel puts it:   Examples from our own time are so numerous and notorious that it is needless to direct attention to them. It is axiomatic that all measures for safeguarding the public health are opposed by the majority, and that getting them upon the books is mainly a matter of deceiving and checkmating it. What happened in Los Angeles when a vaccination ordinance was submitted to a popular referendum is typical of what would happen anywhere under the same circumstances. The ordinance was rejected, and smallpox spread in the town. The proletariat, alarmed, then proceeded against it by going to Christian Scientists, osteopaths and chiropractors.   Without a doubt Menckel’s central thesis is his strongest. The examples he gives are mirrored in the modern US: anti-vaxxers, Christian groups that blame cancer on abortion, or STIs on contraception; the monsters that Mencken rallies against are here and very much alive, 80 years on.Indeed, you can quite easily substitute a whole host of contemporaneous issues straight into Menckel’s argument. To quote him from a separate work:  As democracy is perfected, the office of president represents, more and more closely, the inner soul of the people. On some great and glorious day the plain folks of the land will reach their heart's desire at last and the White House will be adorned by a downright moron.  Donald Trump, anyone?It doesn’t stop there, of course. Here across the pond, the mob voted to shoot itself in the foot and chose Brexit. The year before the proletariat voted to elect a Tory government; when the Tories tried to cut tax credits, it was like the turkeys realised what Christmas meant. (See this link.) Indeed, the sheer number of catastrophic decisions that the mob makes—and against demonstrable fact, such as on evolution, global warming and the cause of the banking crisis—is staggering. Mencken believed many spurious things. Behaviourist psychology is now all but discredited. There’s no such thing as a superior race. But in this, Mencken is not discredited; the fact is, his argument—even 80 years on— applies just as easily to the issues of today as it did back then. It is simply inconceivable for it to not lack a grain of truth.  Are the Mob Congenitally Idiots?Where Menckel’s thesis begins to weaken is when he takes the argument above a step further, and claims that the mob is not only just full of idiots; the mob are destined, by genetics, to be full of idiots.We can tell Menckel is mistaken by looking away from the US of A and across the Atlantic. A great deal of what Mencken describes does not exist here in England, or in the Netherlands. There is nothing like the anti-vaxxer or the anti-abortion movements here in England, and nor do religious fanatics elect members of parliament. In the Netherlands, there is no Puritan prosecution of the kind Mencken describes. Alcohol is legal. Holland was the first country to bring in gay marriage. You can kiss your brother. Even drugs are legal.So clearly, idiocy in politics is not biological in nature if there can be such vast differences between nations. Furthermore, there appears to be no genetic link underlying political lunacy. Working class children can and do become competent statesmen—John Major is one example. But if the mob is not populated by idiots out of biological necessity, than why are there so many damn idiots? The cause is more likely to do with education and expertise. On a first point of order, the mob makes bad decisions because very few of those in it are economists, historians or statesmen. Frankly, issues of complex economic, political, legal and historical means are beyond the ken of a cashier at Tesco. (Or Wal-Mart, for you Americans.)There is also scarce doubt that education makes a great deal of difference. The reason the Netherlands is generally well run, and the reason that the US is generally badly run, is because the populus of the two nations are radically different where it comes to education and the media.In the US, few know anything about economics or statecraft. In the Netherlands civil education is taken seriously. In the UK, the gutter press publish propaganda under the direction of Rupert Murdoch. Fox News does the same across the pond. But in Holland, the media as a whole is of a higher regard.  Are the Masses Really Sovereign?Mencken, in his usual eloquent fashion, argues that all democratic systems of government are practically the same:  The lowly Christian I have limned is not only the glory of democratic states, but also their boss. Sovereignty is in him, sometimes both actually and legally, but always actually. Whatever he wants badly enough he can get. If he is misled by mountebanks and swindled by scoundrels it is only because his credulity and imbecility cover a wider area than his simple desires. The precise form of the government he suffers under is of small importance. Whether it be called a constitutional monarchy, as in England, or a representative republic, as in France, or a pure democracy, as in some of the cantons of Switzerland, it is always essentially the same.  Undoubtedly, many democrats—I’m thinking of the likes of Robert Dahl or Noam Chomsky in particular—would bristle at this. They’re always complaining about how the political elites don’t represent the people; that if only a purer form of democracy were brought in, the nation would find its succour.But in Menkel’s words, the solution to democracy is not more democracy. The fact of the matter is that it even the most watered down democracies—with representatives, first-past-the-post, constitutions and lawyers—the people still choose who to vote for. At the end of the day, political parties generally share the prejudices of their voters. And if the voters find themselves overly discontent with the current political regime, they vote in radicals. Front National, Podemos, Syriza, UKIP—it is only a matter of time before the common man gets what he wants, and gets it good and hard. (Once more I quote Mencken.)Mencken discredits his opponents further, however. Even if democracy were pure, the mob will still be misled by peddlers of fanciful lies. The fact of the matter is, the ordinary girl at Sports Direct does not know much, or have much opinion on, the matters of EU treaties, environmental legislation, or tax law. She votes on sentiment, and those who can understand and manipulate her prejudices—be it Farage with his xenophobic rhetoric, the Conservatives with their ‘economic plan,’ or the likes of Podemos with their implausible promises—can and will convince her to vote in way or the other.But this is not to say that the masses lack sovereignty—that they are manipulated without end. Menkel recognised this dichtomy, and had a clear answer to it: the mob is still, obviously, a mob. It is unpredictable and has many contradictory and shifting prejudices. The mob is ultimately sovereign; if the demagogue or politician (which according to Mencken, usually amount to the same thing) fails to adapt to the shifting wind, he will be thrown overboard—a new demagogue in his place.  Democracy and PuritanismTo be perfectly frank, I don’t buy Mencken’s argument that democracy is inherently linked with Puritanism. Firstly this is because such a claim is obviously wrong—the Netherlands, a very democratic country, is about as far from Puritanism as you can get. Mencken fell foul to three false premises in making this claim. He firstly knew only of the US, and secondly cherry picked to ignore less convenient examples elsewhere. Thirdly: he based his argument on psycho-babble.It’s ironic, actually. In Notes on Democracy Mencken criticises the psychologists of the 19th century, but then proceeds to accept a bogus psychology (behaviourism) while providing a false psychology of the democratic masses.The reality is, the democratic masses are not all jealous and afraid of each other, or envious of the higher classes. While Mencken is correct to assert that jealousy and fear are the main (though perhaps not only) causes of Puritanism—hence anti-LGBT laws or the banning of alcohol or nude art—he is incorrect to believe that the masses are by nature Puritan.As with believing that political acuity is genetic, Mencken simply takes his argument too far on the basis of ideas that (while popular in his time) are simply false.  Democracy and CapitalismAccording to Mencken, capitalism is popular under democracy because:  Democratic man can understand the aims and aspirations of Capitalism; they are, greatly magnified, simply his own aims and aspirations.  If we recall, the aims of democratic man are to be fed, safe, entertained, and above all to have some sort of upperhand against his fellow man. Looking at modern America—with its obesity, its 24/7 reality TV, and its crude oppression of the lower economic classes—it is easy to accept this.But perhaps it is not quite the whole story. Many communist governments, like that in Cuba, do have a good deal of public support. (47% of Cubans have a positive view of Raul Castro, for example.)Or maybe the psychology of democratic man is to some degree the psychology of human beings in general. Of course we want to be well-fed, entertained, and some of us do secretly want to outdo the other.But I feel Mencken is ultimately mistaken here. For one, a good part of the reason why communisms fail to take root in democratic societies is because communist movements tend to be revolutionary—and unless the situation is very dire, no one really wants a revolution. Mencken is correct when he says that being safe, warm and fed is more important to the average man than abstract concepts of liberty or communist dreams of the emancipation of the workers.Another issue is that democratic societies are generally wealthy societies. Europe, America, and Japan are obvious examples. The Chinese, on the other hand, do not have democracy; nor do many in the Middle East, Africa or South America. This inevitably biases the ratio of capitalist democracies. Mencken’s biggest mistake, however, is more fundamental. He simply assumes that human psychology is immutable and constant across the ages. But he is quite mistaken: hunter gatherer societies were frequently communist. Matriarchy was once more common that patriarchy.   The Dignity of the PoliticianMencken finally blamed democracy for undermining the decency of its politicians. To be a politician and gain power, one must tell the electorate what they want to hear. A politician is therefore either an unprincipled hack, or he insults his principles by deceiving the electorate whenever they turn against him.Hillary Clinton is perhaps a prime example of this. Her politics changes with the wind.But what of the likes of Jeremy Corbyn? He has stuck fast to his principles for the past 30 years.Mencken would say that he is the exception that proves the rule; for the past 30 years he has been a backbencher, and the only reason he’s an MP is because of the vagaries of FPTP. When your constituency has a large number of impoverished people and champagne socialists, there is no need to sell elaborate lies and vacuous soundbites. You can be true to what you are.ConclusionMencken is undoubtedly a fascinating thinker and an eloquent writer. But more than that: he’s refreshing. Usually, I am told that democracy is the best thing since sliced bread; especially by Liberals, but also by other creatures of the political spectrum. If I claim to doubt democracy, I am not merely a fool; I am a heretic. An authoritarian. Mencken drops a bucket of cold water over that. Where other thinkers make metaphysical defences of the value of democracy, or come up with elaborate explanations of why democratic societies make poor decisions (usually because there’s not, eh, enough democracy), Mencken offers a frank and rational critique of democracy.He’s not always on the money. Democracy does not have to be Puritan; stupidity is a function of ignorance, not genetics. But in his main argument he is correct: democracy is fundamentally flawed because of its mistaken belief in the collective wisdom of individual ignorance. Are there solutions? Mencken does not offer them, and it is beyond the scope of this already lengthy review to consider them.All I will say is that if you enjoy having your foundational beliefs challenged by a witty, intelligent contrarian, Notes on Democracy is the book for you. It may have some obscure historical allusions, it may be verbose, but damn, it’s good—both logically and rhetorically.Rating: 4/5
I received a free copy of this book through Goodreads Firstreads.H.L. Mencken was always one of my father's favorite writers, but until now I'd never read his works. I found he was witty, snarky, sarcastic, educated, iconoclastic and always willing to exaggerate a point for maximum impact (much like my father). Even now, some fifty years after his death, Mencken is still a controversial figure, capable of raising strong emotions in his readers."Notes on Democracy" is Mencken's commentary on the democratic system. Although parts of it are clearly dated (a large portion of the book is a diatribe against Prohibition, and there's a fair number of pot shots taken at the KuKluxKlan), most of it stands the test of time quite well. I found the introduction to be good preparatory reading, and the Annotations are interesting and useful in themselves.It's both alarming and reassuring to see how much of the problems we recognize today were around well before this book was written in the 1920's. Mencken clearly intended to shock and jar his audience, but in the post W era some of it leads to a sad 'so true' rather than outrage at the author.I'm going to be lending this one around, and expect to be referring to it for quotes and snark and perspective on the follies and foibles built into the structure of the country.
This treatment of the shortcomings of democracy is a major disappointment considering the source; Mencken is one of my favorite writers and is generally penetrating and often brilliant, and expresses himself inimitably (though many have tried to imitate him). But this, despite its brevity-just over two hundred pages of VERY large type-is too long by at least two thirds. It would have made an excellent essay. The rhetoric is overblown and padded, the same points are made over and over, yet controversial and debatable claims go unexplained. I would like to know more about the history of the book; it reads as if Mencken was obligated to write it by contract or just needed money.If you've never read Mencken please do, but you can skip this book.
Funny montage of landed bigots.
'Two or three graces' is a writing experiment. Unbalanced; the author bounces between (character) anatomization and ignorance or superficial depiction. Sometimes you 'read' a character vivisection interlaced with poorly described action. It creates the impression of an unfinished painting, where some details are very meticulosly drawn, and everything else is utterly blurry. However, Huxley succeeded to create some pretty literary artifices: behavior anticipation due to character reprezentation; a (super)thorough (psychological, moral, physical) portrait for the main character; emphases on key words or key human traits - helpful for main idea understanding. Not a re-readable work; though I think it is worth it for the sake of experiment. (There's a very subtle link between Huxley's Grace(s) and Eliade's story 'Three Graces'. Very very very subtle :))
With an African landscape full of lost and often decaying civilizations, epic histories of Zululand and its court intrigues that match the Tudors in their lust for revenge and power, teeming hordes of wildlife, and, always, mysteries within mysteries, H. Rider Haggard's universe is varied and unlimited in its scope. And so he could imagine such things even less than a century ago. All long disappeared into dust, now, along with Haggard, Quatermain, and tableaux that obsessed the author.Treasure of the Lake is yet another episodic adventure through the hidden heart of Africa. It follows Haggard's usual formula for the Quatermain series--a skeptical Allan seeking to rationally explain what cannot be explained fully without recourse to spiritualism and the occult. Yet, as with all the rest, it never grows old, seeming vital and quest worthy until the very end. Once more, Allan brings along Hans, his Hottentot companion and friend, who throughout the series has continued to grow into a sustained voice of wisdom, even while he mocks, chides, and even ridicules Allan at times. This pairing of kinsmen of the spirit is one of the strengths of this novel and the series.One more volume in the series remains. Would that Haggard have lived to write many more, this being one of three, I believe, of his posthumously published novels.
This is the first book of H. Rider Haggard's I've read. The story is fascinating. I can see how this became the first of the Lost World genre of books. The main character is Allan Quartermain, the character Sean Connery played in the League of Extraordinary Men. Haggard's hero also became the inspiration for Indiana Jones.
UKUPNA OCENA (overall rating) ★★ 2/5 starsRadnja (story) ★★Ideja (plot idea) ★★★Okruženje (setting) ★★★Pripovedanje (writing style) ★★Likovi (characters) ★★UTISAK (summary) - početak je obećavao još jednu avanturu Alana Kvotermejna ali nedoslednost u priči, jednoličan stil pisanja, isprazni i ponavljajući dijalozi istih takvih likova kao i dosadna radnja čine knjigu jedva čitljivom do kraja.
Read several of Haggard's books and enjoyed them all
Recommended fiction, especially for those interested in things Enochian.
Before reading it I'd recommend to get acquainted with the author's biography, it eases the understanding. The book is meant as summary of all Meyeink's previous novels. It erases the borders between real and illusive, makes you reconsider or, at least, think about our role in the world. Despite the fact some general knowledge of alchemy would be here of help, even without those you swim with great pleasure through the waves of the novel.
Meyrink is always a wild ride. Some compare him to Lovecraft, but I think his work is much deeper; less concerned with creeping you out and more geared towards slipping the reader into a sort of dream state. It's been too long and I need to re-read this. I remember being thrilled by it, though I don't really know why it's considered "decadent."
You have to REALLY be interested in and somewhat (even a teensy bit like myself) knowledgeable about the basics of alchemy in its "spiritual" form to get through this book. It's pretty good, very interesting and definitely one to reread at some point.The narrator of this story is one Baron Muller, who inherits a bunch of old papers & diaries that belonged to the Elizabethan astrologer/physician/magician/alchemist Dr. John Dee. He decides to go through them randomly, and as he does, he comes to realize that he is holding the life story of Dee, and that in Dee's lifetime he left many things undone that need to be finished. In the introduction to this book, Mike Mitchell (who is also the translator in my edition), wrote that "Meyrink's universe is multi-layered and different worlds exist alongside, interlinked with, each other." (15) And as the story goes on, Muller becomes aware that his fate is linked with that of Dee's unfinished business, and that he has a responsibility to pick up various threads across time and space to fulfill both his and Dee's destiny. If you're into the occult at all, or into alchemy in its various forms, or if you're interested in the story of Doctor John Dee, you may want to try this. I'm always fascinated by this person, and the story did not let me down. It is a book you need to read slowly because it is so incredibly full, but well worth it in the end. You should also wait until the end to read the introduction.
Having just finished a small survey of Christian esoteriscm in the Elizabethan age which featured a section on Dee himself I couldnt imagine anyone more capable of enjoying this book than me. And boy am I glad I read it. This book was perfect.Despite my minor knowledge I still had to look up and spend a few extracurricular hours studying beliefs and cults that Meyrink casually references. One ritual in particular the so called Taghairm was really really interesting to look up and if you didnt a lot of the following sections wouldnt make sense. Just from that one word.If you enjoy historical narratives that are more like puzzles waiting to be unraveled than stories then you will like this book. Just be prepared to do some serious research, I cant imagine reading this before the internet.
Timeless.
One of my favourite dramas mainly because it breaks the constraints that social barriers hold while dealing with society in a very eco-feminist way.
Horrible play!
Might want to teach this for IB! Awesome story... very relevant to Thailand!
A marvelous read
The first play of Tagore I ever read. I was young, perhaps 14 when I read it. It engaged me, but went completely over my head. Upon re reading it many years later, I was struck by the beautiful metaphors used to tell the story.
I feel plays are much better than this...totally disappointed.
i think it is the interesting books
Best
4.5/5
A great book for kids
This novella was written by Edgar Rice Burroughs for younger readers. It was originally published in October 1927. It is far from Burroughs' best writing. I don't think Burroughs was a racist, but this story has more racial stereotypes in it than just about any of his other works. The story itself plods along in a very predictable fashion.
This is an attempt by Burroughs to write a juvenile book and it really didn't work. I didn't care for it at all. The edition I have is from Wildside Press. Someone who is collecting ERB and wants to have a complete run of the Tarzan stories might want it.
I liked this book. I would have loved it when I was younger. I can't wait to read it with my son.
I'm about 90% sure I never read this one and I wasn't missing much. This was written just a few years before the appearance of the first comic book sidekick, Robin the Boy Wonder, and it was probably meant to serve the same purpose. Sidekicks like Robin were introduced to comic books to give a younger audience a character they could identify with. It was thought that kids would be more interested in comics if there was a kid in the comic and it would bring younger readers in. (A similar thought process led to the inclusion of Captain Stubing's daughter, Vickie, on the Love Boat. If you don't know what I'm talking about, ask your parents - or grandparents.) In this case, two first cousins are called the Tarzan twins for rather tortured reasons. It seems their mothers were twin sisters and one married an American and stayed in the States while the other one married a distant cousin of Lord Greystoke and settled in England. The sisters had sons on the same day but on different continents. One is blond and one is dark and one is named Doc and the other is Dick but don't ask me which is which. They're pretty interchangeable. When they go to school together their schoolmates dub them the Tarzan twins due to the distant connection to Tarzan and their resemblance to one another. To try to live up to the name they learn to climb trees and participate in athletics to make themselves strong and fit. When the chance comes to travel to Africa to visit the Greystokes at the age of 14, they jump at it. Of course they get lost in the jungle and are captured by cannibals.There isn't anything new or particularly memorable about this one other than the introduction of mini Tarzans, something we never asked for and didn't need. We already have a much better example with Korak - Son of Tarzan - and I found these boys annoying to the extreme. It's nice and short at least, but there's another one coming up behind it so I'm not quite done with these two, unfortunately. I have to give this one 3 stars just because Tarzan appears, but it's really a 2 star book at best.
I've been borrowing this book from the library for many many years. I'm ecstatic it's back in print!I still don't know how I feel about Dunne's theory----basically, that our dreams are memories from the future. But it's something that makes sense (no matter how far fetched it sounds....) and it's something that I'd *like* to believe.A regular person can easily understand the text; it's not all heavy-handed scientific terms. An enjoyable read.
Excellent. Strange. Controversial. Underestimated. Exceptional. Unique. From the time of Aristotle, Plotinus, Augustinus, Boethius, Michael Psellus, Saint Thomas and in modern times, Einstein and Henri Bergson, one of the best theories of time. Each philosopher often has a theory of time, but there isn't any other which intrigues so much the imagination, as the obscure and, at the same time proved in mathematical diagrams, theory of this forgotten aeuronautical engineer. The mathematics of dreams, time and eternity. But I don't believe that a demonstrated proof of dreem prediction is included in the book. The problem is the mixing of the dreaming subjec with the human history as a whole. If a singular person can dream the future, he will not predict only his own future, but of whole humanity. This is what this text explicitly says. As for his famous contribution to the theory of the simultaneous experience of time, subjective and universall, is very well known, by so many examples in history.
This book is interesting not only in theory but in presentation. Although Dunne seems excited about his discoveries, his enthusiasm does not muddle the preciseness of his observations. It is an exposition of wonders, geared to explain away phenomena like clairvoyance, déjà vu, telepathy, etc., but he is confident and professional all throughout, at times playing his own skeptic, chicanery-free. Given the burden of empirical proof, the scientific validity of the book will always be called into question. A previous reviewer believes that "the main problem arises with the writer's assumption of time having an unlimited number of dimensions. This is a statement that Dunne does not even try to prove at any point of his otherwise rather meticulous analysis." In other words, Dunne conceives of time as being another dimension of space. He has no recourse but to assume that time has dimensions like space because humanity has rather limited tools of perception for the purpose of such a study. If time has dimensions, then it will take time to measure any unit of time, and one will need another unit to measure the measuring time, and so on, until infinity. In such a model, real time would be the unattainable border of this infinite series.What this reviewer regarded as "mind-boggling philosophical statements" I found to be charming intuitive gems:"Evolution has worked for possibly eight hundred million years towards the development of the brain. Today, as Professor McKendrick points out, nearly all the functions of our bodies are operating towards the end of the adequate nutrition of the grey matter. And it now appears that, apart from its self-sustaining and self-developing activities, the brain serves as a machine for teaching the embryonic soul to think."My opinion of the book is best summed up in a preface written for the second Spanish edition by Jorge Luis Borges. It can be found in BIBLIOTECA PERSONAL (Emecé;, 1998). Borges later wrote an essay incorporating elements of the preface called "Time and J.W. Dunne" (1940), which is included in his SELECTED NON-FICTIONS (Penguin, 1999).Since the essay can be found easily enough, here is my translation of the preface, written in 1934:"A literary historian may one day write the history of a most recent genre in literature: the title. I recall none more admirable than the one on this volume. It is not merely for show; it ignites our interest in the text and sure enough the text does not disappoint. It is conversational in character and opens up marvelous possibilities for our conception of the world.J.W. Dunne was an engineer, not a man of letters. Aeronautics is indebted to him for an invention which proved its efficiency in the First World War. His logical and mathematical mind was opposed to all things mystical. He arrived at his strange theory via a statistical study of his nightly dreams. He explained and defended the theory in three volumes that provoked a clamor of polemic. H.G. Wells accused of him of taking the first chapter of his "The Time Machine" (pub. 1895) much too seriously; Dunne responded in a note to his second edition, which is now in print. Likewise, Malcolm Grant refuted him in A NEW ARGUMENT FOR GOD AND SURVIVAL (1934).Of the three volumes that constitute his completed work, THE SERIAL UNIVERSE is the most technical. The last, NOTHING DIES (1940), is downright popular science, meant for radio dispersal.Dunne proposes an infinite series of times that flow in and out and because of one another. He assures us that upon our death we shall be handed the happy reins of eternity. We shall recover all of the instants of our lives and compose them in whatever manner is most pleasant to us. God and our friends and Shakespeare shall collaborate in this."And the closing line of the essay:"So splendid a thesis makes any fallacy committed by the author insignificant."
Everything is broken.
An extremely interesting read which appears to me to have a very human story behind it. The science behind the book is no doubt dated, but I found it thrilling as a philosophical experiment that can actually be put into practice. Applied philosophy from an aeronautical engineer. It is also very much a book of its period, a febrile time of war, spiritualism, the 20th century scientific revolution and the exploration of the human mind. I am surprised it did not have more of an impact in the 1960s as it was very forward-looking.
This is an amazing book. It encourages you to record your dreams and look for predictions. Really challenges out everyday view of time! A classic.
Absolutely loved this book, gives a brand new perspective on dreams and reality.
What a fascinating book, one that is now mostly forgotten but that inspired a generation of early- and mid-twentieth-century writers, including Flann O'Brien, J.R.R. Tolkien, Verlyn Flieger, and, indirectly, the writers of the TV series Lost. Dunne observed that he had precognitive dreams, but with a twist. The inferences that he makes from that about the nature of time are well worth examining, even though I personally think that his arguments are flawed. But the ideas themselves and his analysis and development represent a brilliant creation that deserves to be re-examined and enjoyed on its own terms.
Morton, H. V. IN SEARCH OF ENGLAND. (1927; this ed. 2002). *****. Morton, born in 1892 near Manchester, was a prolific writer of articles and travel literature. It helped that his father was the editor of the Birmingham Mail and that he started his own career on the rival Birmingham Express at the age of 17. After a stint with the Warwickshire Yeomanry during WW I, he went back to his writing career. His first major success was in reporting the discovery of Tutankhamun’s Tomb. After that, he was given the opportunity to write a series of vignettes about London life for the Daily Express. These later appeared in book form in the 1920s under the titles, “The Heart of London,” and “The Spell of London.” This book, which was first published in 1927, collected his essays written when he took a motor trip around England to discover the English countryside. In those days, there weren’t a lot of main roads, but, then, there weren’t a lot of cars either. Tourist traffic had started in a small way, but Morton managed to avoid the crowds and discover the essence of each English city he visited. I’m not sure how long he took on this trip, but it had to be more than a month. He always talked with the locals and explored many of the arts soon to be lost to the encroaching urbanization of the countryside. He managed to visit the antiquities of each town – especially the churches and cathedrals – and to impart to his readers the sense of history embodied in all of them. His history retelling was not the dull type of English history we encountered in school, but a lively fusion of history, myth, and heritage that survived to his day. I wish I had found this book before I had taken any of my jaunts around England. It would have made my travels so much more informative and enjoyable. There is lots of humor in his observations, too. Not the slap your thighs type, but the typical droll, dry humor for which the English are famous. If you are looking for more humor, then you should look to writers like Bill Bryson, but please don’t ignore this book. Find a copy for yourself and take it with you. Highly recommended.
This book was published in 1935, based on the author's travels in the 1920s, so this aspect was interesting, and when the comparison is made to our lives today it is even more so. The author is treated to a wireless evening one night , which was apparently a big thing in the village he was in. Radio was not a household thing in those days, and the reception wasn't too good, but still, its hard to imagine the world he traveled in. The writing is good, and he finds human interest in all sorts of things, and helps the reader visualize the past as he goes through historic area. Good read.
The first paragraph of this book hooked me: "I believed that I was dying in Palestine. There was no woman to convince me that the pain in my neck was not the first sign of spinal meningitis, so that growing rapidly worse, I began to attend my own funeral every day. My appetite, however, remained excellent." Morton was a homesick journalist during the Great War and wanted to come back to England (he was the first to break the story of Tutankhamun's discovery). Once home, he traveled to as many towns and cities as he could, recording all he saw in 1927. He wrote twelve travel books. He influenced Bill Bryson. I don't find Morton as funny as Bryson, but they do have similar outlooks. Both record local quirky conversations. Morton also has a reverence for cathedrals, and peels away history inside each to find something unusual and telling about England. Rarely did I find paragraphs as good as that first one, but the search kept me reading to the end.
One of the seminal books of travel as literature, this is a tour around the cathedral towns and assorted small villages of England. Morton was in his early thirties when he wrote this book in 1927, and his style had not yet fully matured.At times beautiful in its physical descriptions and at times merely silly, this is a good humored, loving tour of the England of its day. As Jan Morris writes in his/her introduction to this edition, anyone looking to use this as a guidebook today will be "stupefyingly disillusioned". I prefer Morton's In Search of London--written only a few years after World War II, it alternates historical anecdotes about buildings and locations in London with descriptions of the damage done by German bombing. While In Search of England has its share of historical anecdotes, it isn't as compelling a read as the London book. Nevertheless, I recommend this, as well as any of Morton's other works, to anyone who enjoys this sort of travel writing.
c1920 - What a lovely little book and I can see why it is still in print. It is not just the descriptions of the places that he visited but it is the casual acquaintances that he makes along the way which just make this such a good little read. Highly recommended. "Weymouth has not yet recovered from the surprise that George III discovered it as a health resort" Brilliant!
Quaint, folksy ... and dated. Yawn.
A thoroughly enjoyable journey around England in 1926. H.V.Morton writes well and describes things so clearly you could almost be there. I look forward to reading many more of his books.
In Search Of England by H.V. MortonAfter many years abroad, H.V. Morton set out one morning in the mid-1920s, in his Morris two-seater car, on a tour of his home country.This book was published on 2nd June 1927. It is now in its 40th printing with its original publisher in the UK. One British newspaper described the book as "travel writing at its best. Bill Bryson must weep when he reads it." I agree. The book is an absolute delight. The best travel writing inspires the reader to want to go and visit the places described. I came away from this book with a list of places to visit, or revisit. I was also inspired to look up many of the places he visited online. Many still look every bit as charming as H.V. Morton's descriptions.H.V. Morton was writing at a time when people were less mobile. Interestingly he still describes traffic jams in the Lake District, and seems to encounter American tourists wherever he goes. He also stumbles across many old customs and skills that would have been in their death throes at the time he was writing, for example he describes flint-knappers in Norfolk, a skill that was already all but extinct. Morton's writing is frequently sublime. It is fairly obvious that the reality cannot have been quite so perfect and that he must have made up some of the account. As the trauma of World War One started to diminish I suspect many readers wanted this type of pleasing portrait of England as a place of tradition, stability, history, country lanes, village greens, outstanding beauty, quirky characters and traditional pubs serving warm ale and cheese. The book's conclusion perfectly illustrates this romanticised view:"I went out into the churchyard where the green stones nodded together, and I took up a handful of earth and felt it crumble and run through my fingers, thinking that as long as one English field lies against another there is something left in the world for a man to love.'Well', smiled the vicar as he walked towards me between the yew trees, 'that, I am afraid, is all we have'.'You have England', I said."It is interesting to consider the extent to which it is acceptable to embellish or romanticise accounts of travel. For me it matters not a jot and I have no hesitation in recommending this delightful book.
While ill and abroad, the author found that he missed England with a passion and, on his return, set out to find his version of the rural idyll. This is the story of his travels, by motor car, around England, which was first published in 1927. The 1920's were a time when coach trips were extremely popular and had made much of the countryside open to more people - even more so than the railways. The author both extols the delights of popular travel, while bemoaning the 'vulgarization' of the country. Although delightful, this is certainly not an unbiased version of the authors travels - his thoughts are clear for all to see. If he doesn't like a place, finds fault with a tourist spot or is unhappy, then you will certainly know about it. For example, he enters Wigan, "expecting the worst" and finds Norfolk, "the most suspicious county in England." Despite his many stereotypes and personal biases though, he is generally enthusiastic and willing to be pleased, as he strikes up endless conversations and searches out people and places of interest.As the author says himself, it is a curious characteristic of the English scenery to change in a few miles. We certainly see a range of places through his eyes, from Stonehenge, to Dartmoor, the ruins of Glastonbury, Hadrian's Wall and endless inns, cathedrals and churches. Although this was written so long ago, it is reassuring to see that the generation gap was still the same, with a cockle gatherer claiming that they were the last of their kind as, "girls today want to be ladies.... and they don't like hard work either." Whether ill and writing essays while, "under the influence of a cocaine pill and a raw egg" or being side tracked by women luring him into teashops, "I believe the Crusades could have been stopped by a Dorsetshire tea," he is wonderful company. This travel book is a delight and will show you the England between the wars with a most enthusiastic and illuminating guide.
Morton's travelogue is the ne plus ultra of travel writing. He's the master of the genre, and his work here is the measure of it. Morton has earned his popularity by capturing the sights, sounds, and splendour of England as it was in the 1920's with aplomb. It's a joy to read this pleasant tour of bridges, forests, pubs, village greens, and eccentric characters.
This is a truly delightful little travelogue of a somewhat idiosyncratic journey. My Folio Society edition has wonderfully apt and quirky illustrations scattered throughout. Yes, perhaps, some of the comments aren't quite in step with current pc-illiberalism but then as L. P. Hartley put it "the past is a foreign country; they do things differently there." There is much joy and wonder and thankfulness spread throughout the book. And there is much in the reporting of human nature that reminds me at least that the things that truly deeply matter in human life don't change - and even last night sitting in my local village pub hearing snatches of conversation what concerns us all doesn't change much either.In the final pages of the book Morton recounts the vicar of a small village talking "progress" such as modern methods of communication, in this instance newspapers, which bring 'the latest murders every Sunday morning. Even that has not altered us much: the newspapers are only another kind of fairy story about the world outside.' See - maybe so much hasn't changed after all.
Old fashion but well done and enjoyable.
I enjoyed accompanying Morton around England. This was a relaxing read, and a bit of a travel classic. Apparently, you can still get a free glass of beer at that monastery he mentions...
Read at the same time as another book. First published in 1964 it gives a glimpse of the many varieties of English culture and traditions. The author travels the length and breadth of England talking to locals and seeing the sights. A good read. I was born in Manchester, England and lived in Britain until 1977 and although I have travelled back many times to many different places, I enjoyed his idiosyncratic style of writing and learned many new things.
I didn't enjoy this as much as his 'pilgrimage' books, 'In the Steps of The Master' and 'In the Steps of St Paul'. I found it a bit twee at times, patronising of the North-West, and he was rather too determined to find 'characters'. Unlike his writing about the Near East, this did not make me want to visit any of the places described. The style falls into that dangerous area between contemporary and old enough to be classic (as George Borrow). So, not really recommended.
Yes...it was amazing. Anyone who loves England, especially England in the 1920s, will thoroughly enjoy this stroll down memory lane. Too bad we can't go back to this era, and be a tourist in the countryside and cities, and follow Mr. Morton on his fabulous journey. I will re-read this travelogue again and again.
A must have for England Travelers.
I give this book a 5 because it was the first bookI ever read about Genghis Khan and Central Asia when I was 11. It was written in 1927 and is a "Histography" book based on The Secret History. But, for me it is a great book.
Although this edition is likely quite dated, it was extremely well written and enjoyable to read. It is not loaded with cumbersome details and makes for a good beginner book on the subject. More recent books, however, would likely give a better list of sources for those looking for more detail.
A must read for anyone interested in the great khan...
First published in 1927. I probably read in 1950's. This book made me a lifelong fan of Genghis Khan.
The best book written about Genghis Khan I've read thus far.
This book is very interesting and entertaining. I like Lamb's style because the book reads more like a novel or chronicle than a biography. The accounts of the Mongols' battles are suspenseful and gripping. I mostly enjoyed this book, though, because I didn't know anything about the Mongols and their first leader, Genghis Khan. I enjoyed learning about the ancient Chinese and their great empire as well as the Persians and Turks and other "Eastern" ethnic groups. This short book gave me a general idea of the lifestyle in the Gobi desert and defied my assumptions and expectations about Mongolian culture. I also like the fact that Lamb defends Genghis Khan's seemingly murderous personality by actually explaining it and rejecting the second and third hand accounts of the Khan's enemies. Overall, this is a fascinating read!
though no real written records of Genghis Khan was ever made, just notes from observors from foreign lands. the story of the khan is an amazing story of a man wanting to unify all his people. his compassion, insite, determination and fortitude is astounding and his short comings as well. this one is an amazing book.
history in story, I like Lamb's well written and attractive style, Genghis Khan was soft for his people & rigid or we may say ruthless for other people, Lamb expressed his childhood habit to his old age actions and starting Mongol kingdom
Simply written but a great historical read. It is full of facts but it is put in a story context so that it is easy to understand. He really follows what actually happened. Very interesting!
4.0 stars. I got this book as part of my Easton Press "Library of Military History" and had only a general knowledge of who Genghis Khan was. I found this story fascinating and well-written and enjoyed the way the author gave a fairly complete, well-rounded description of Genghis from his early years through his creation of one of the most terrifying military forces of ancient history. When I finished the book, I felt I had a much better understanding of this famous military leader which is what you hope for from a book like this. Recommended!!!
Harold Lamb was fascinated by the people and history of Asia which greatly influenced his fictional short stories, many featuring Cossacks or Mongols as heroes. His fascination just as greatly influenced his string of popular nonfiction histories, of which Genghis Khan was the first, written in 1927. Eventually his skill with nonfiction led to Cecil B. DeMille hiring him as technical advisor and screenwriters on several films.Lamb's style of writing is easy to read, probably because he began his writing career with his exciting adventure stories. He paints a picture, in this novel at least, of Genghis Khan the man, rather than as simply a leader of Mongolian hordes. The introduction nicely sets him in the context of European history by showing the panic and terror expressed in historical documents of the time. Indeed, one of the chief features which impresses me thus far is that Lamb's sources go back to the very earliest Chinese documents mentioning this particular Khan. The resources list in the back is extremely impressive, as are Lamb's notes about them.Lamb expressed dismay that modern historians of his time tended to forget that all historical mentions of Genghis Kahn were written by his enemies. Therefore any actual facts had to be teased out of opinions rendered by those who left a written record, which was not a thing the Mongols valued or bothered with. It is also refreshing that Lamb doesn't interject his own opinion or agenda into any of the attitudes or actions of those I have thus read. He simply tells the story of Genghis Khan as best as it can be reconstructed. Would that more of our modern historians would follow this method.Thus far this is a fascinating book, made all the more so by the hardships and adventures of the great Khan's life and times. Also, of course, it is an easy way to absorb the history of a time and place that are very foreign to us. As I think of the terror of those in Genghis Khan's path, who found his actions and attitudes incomprehensible, it makes me think of the current problems our civilization faces with terrorist threats. History may not literally repeat itself but patterns of behavior do in such a way that we can see connections and this seems to be one of those times.FINALThis is a simply amazing history which lets you feel the character of Genghis Khan, the horror of the destruction left in his wake, and amazement at the loyal organization he built which lasted beyond the grave. That Lamb does it in a lean, succinct 220 pages is nothing short of miraculous in these days of thousand-page tomes to cover a president's life. I was left with a new hero, also, Ye Liu Chutsai. This young Cathayan was captured during a horde attack on China and Genghis Khan grew to trust his counsel. His innate integrity was so respected that he was often able to check the slaughter of untold innocents who fell in the Mongol path. I was also impressed by the two monks, Fra Carpini and Fra Rubruquis who were sent as peace envoys to Genghis Khan by Saint Louis of France. Their integrity helped them keep a whole skin. Their rare good sense and shrewd observations helped the Europeans, though nothing would have saved Europe from being overrun had not Orgotai's death necessitated them returning home (Orgotai was the ruling khan after his father's death).I encourage anyone reading this to be sure to read the notes which answered several burning questions I had such as who Fra Carpini was and more details about the invasion of Europe after Genghis Khan's death. They are highly illuminating and fascinating in their own right.Highly, highly recommended.
This is an author I've loved since before my literary studies. The journal documents a writer's struggle with terminal illness. I admire the tenacious spirit that shines through.
Since I was heading back to NZ, I thought it might be fitting to pack Katherine Mansfield's journal to take with me -- I didn't realise that this journal is made up mostly of material from the last years of her life where she is ill, worried about her writing and in large amounts of pain. Reading this while preparing for general anaesthetic, and again after the anaesthetic has worn off was a weird feeling to say the least. That said, I love it. Mansfield's always been that little bit intimidating, but in her journal she reads like a real person, and a surprisingly modern one -- despite the changes, losses and difficulties of the war, most of what Mansfield uses her journal to reflect upon are just as interesting today -- writing and the role of truth, the struggle of mind, illness and body, looking for direction. This book was so much more than I thought it would be.
Heartbreaking. Enigmatic.
I can't for the life of me remember why I ordered Katherine Mansfield's journal and one of her books of short stories from the main library. That said, I'm glad I did! I've never read a whole journal before, just probably a piece or two here or there for a class. Reading a journal feels strange, like maybe I'm sneaking a peak into someone's brain and I'm not sure that they would want me to do so, you know? Mansfield was a really entertaining woman, from what I can tell, and she has a very relatable way of thinking - especially about her writing... there's a real anguish there about whether or not it's good enough, or whether or not she's writing enough, and it feels so strange to find a comrade who wrote those words in her journal 90-some-odd years ago... Anyway, it was interesting, and I'm reading her short stories, and they're very readable and real, and I like them even better.
It's old-fashioned. The language is great. The characters varied. I think the age of the story just makes it a challenge to really connect with this one.
This is a delightful children's book written in the late 1920's. It is a series featuring barnyard animals Freddy the pig and his friends. The animals have human characteristics among themselves while still appearing an acting entirely as animals to the humans in the story. In this installment, Freddy and some of the other animals decide to migrate south for the winter. Along the way, the animals face various trials and tribulations, including an encounters with some not-so-nice characters.Recommended!Read for graduate school at FSU: LIS 5564 Information needs of Children
I was surprised to discover that this book is so old. Very good tale for kids wriiten with awesome imagination and creativity. It clearly shows how great heart the author has to have.
I knew about these delightful books when I was a kid but never came across them. They’ve been notoriously hard to find for years until Overlook Press started reprinting them. Freddy the Pig is a genius among pigs. There isn’t anything he can’t do once he puts his mind to it. When he decides the Bean Farm animals should go South for the winter like the birds, it’s a road full of adventure for them. In the second book, Freddy Goes to the North Pole, he starts a tourism business for local farm animals and wildlife which finally leads him to conducting a tour to the North Pole to visit Santa. These are the first two books in the series and Brooks was still trying to find his footing, they are fun but lack some of the more sophisticated themes that he addresses in the later books. Apparently, he really hit his stride with the next book, Freddy the Detective, and I’m looking forward to getting around to it. The joy with his stories come from a combination of great characters (Jinx the cat, Mrs. Wiggins the cow, Charles the rooster and his hen-pecking wife, Henrietta), a matter of factness from tone (this is a world where people just accept that the Bean Farm animals can talk, they think it’s a bit odd but they accept it) and an adept weaving of complex “adult” concepts into fun, breezy plots with just the right touch of suspense. Brooks never talks down to his audience. If a kid doesn’t understand what a “constituent” is before he starts reading, he will by the time Brooks is through. I look forward to spending long hours reading these stories to my kids someday. For some reason these first three volumes can be a bit hard to find even in their reprint, you can also find the first three published in one volume.
This is one of the funniest, warmest books I’ve ever read! The whole family laughed and laughed! This book provides some wonderful mementoes and connections for our family. Highly recommended!
Delightful short tale of a farm “family” of animals who decided that in order to escape the cold of winter they will migrate south. They are inspired by the tales that the traveling birds tell them of a lush place where the beds are never cold and everyone is happy. Florida! Along the way they run into adventures of all sorts. I like that throughout the story different characters are coming up with creative solutions to their problems. And that generally those solutions involve working together as a team, which us usually successful – along with being comical. I love Jinx the cat, though he does seem to get the animals into trouble more often than out of it. And the two spiders, Mr. and Mrs. Web are a delightful addition to the traveling bunch.
This is a kids book, not even YA but actually a kids book. I don't know any kids in the age range it was written for that would actually understand it but I really liked it. Felt a bit like a Pixar movie in that it has something for the big kids too. It was so beautifully written and illustrated that I didn't care who it was written for. Way more interesting to put my imagination in the real world to work (and more difficult). No vampires, no wizards, no sci-fi, no goth girls. Just a well written good story.
I have been wanting to do some read-alouds with the kids and finally got started this fall. After several Magic Tree House books (awesome, of course) we read this Freddy book. Written in 1926 it was a little dated but ultimately was a fun story of a group of farm animals in the North that decide they want to try out migrating to Florida for the winter. Picaresque-style story, a la Huck Finn. The kids were enraptured and thoroughly enjoyed the story. We won't read another Freddy story right away, but would definitely consider it in the future.
The Freddy books are a fun series which I remember reading as a young person. I enjoyed listening to this one as did my daughters. The animals in the story are discontent with the current state of Mr. Bean's farm and decide migrate to Florida. Along the way, they have many adventures as they encounter other animals and humans who would seek to capture them. They also hear the story of some missing treasure and seek to uncover the mystery of where the gold might be.
The first installment of the series which our 9 year old grandson is devouring. On his and his grandfather's recomendation, I read it via SKYPE to the far away grandkids. It worked well because several times there was a 30 to 45 second video lag; not too conducive to picture books. We all really enjoyed Freddy and his friends' adventures and hope to read "Freddy the Cowboy" apparently the best book of the series according to Luke.
Several farm animals, all of whom can talk, although humans hear only their animal sounds, are intrigued by a flock of twittering swallows and decide to migrate to Florida for the winter from a place that sounds like upstate New York. They have adventures on the way there and back. This and subsequent Freddy stories were among the books that started me on a lifetime of reading about 60 years ago. Trying this first of the series again (Freddy the Detective is up next, although it may be as far as I go) showed why I was enthralled. Brooks was a real story teller with an inventive but subdued style. The Freddy books are usually seen as literature for older children but there's enough extra in this one to repay a rereading decades after the first time around. It's a model of gentle whimsy. The world would be a better place if many people found a quiet room and read this.
This was such an entertaining book.   Apparently this series was super popular back in the day (and back in my childhood--Tori, I'm looking at you!), so I was truly surprised I didn't hear of it sooner than I did.  This was a fun little romp along the east coast, and it was great watching Freddy and his pals meet the president, outwit some crocodiles, and find some gold.  This is one of the few books from the past that has actually....aged really well.  So, kudos to you, Freddy!Review cross-listed here!
I just read my Christmas gift from 1958 again, and enjoyed it immensely! We had recently moved to Florida and I enjoyed sharing Freddy's and his friends' journey. It may have been written 90 years ago, but children would still enjoy their adventure!
Very fun book to read with the kids.
A book first published in 1927 with a charming and adventurous storyline. Freddy the pig and some of his farm animal friends are tired of living in cold and drafty barns during upstate New York winters. They make arrangements with the other animals to keep the farm well run for the farmer and his wife and then they head south to Florida. On the way they meet some good guys (including the president) but also pontificating politicians, hungry alligators, and men with thievery on their hearts. They keep walking and find a cache of gold they can give to the farmer to fix up the farm buildings; they spend their winter playing on the sand and seeing the sights in Florida; and during miles of walking, they work together to outwit the bad guys while they enjoy the scent of orange blossoms drifting on the Florida breeze. When spring is about to arrive, they decide to go home, encountering yet more adventures along the way.This is a classic book important to the development of children's literature as a separate genre. The language is paced and somewhat outdated but the story is positive, straightforward, and full of action a la 1927. While the animals are willing to try brute force to continue their journey if absolutely necessary, mostly they figure out ways to perservere while they trick and outhink the bad guys.Might do better as a read aloud. Many kids raised on action won't get past the beginning chapter to enjoy the storyline. Middle school readers might be more receptive. Well worth reading.
Noah and I read this book out of order---not realizing it came before "Freddy the Detective"---but it didn't matter too much in the end. Another great story about these colorful animal characters, who decide to skip a harsh winter at the farm and migrate to Florida. Noah was especially tickled since we live in Florida, and he loved "the Grandfather of All Alligators," who, in one scene, tells the cow Mrs. Wiggins that she'll be eaten up, "horns, hoofs, and tail." Tomorrow it's off to the library for more Freddy books for my KINDERGARTNER (he starts tomorrow). >Sniffle, sniffle.<
April, 2014: Another road trip to Florida book, this was just as good as when we first read it. John McDonaugh (aka Mr. Kangaroo) is awesome! These books are perfect kids' books. Read one of them already!June 1, 2011:Another great Freddy book. This is the very first Freddy book that Brooks wrote, so he hasn't yet fine-tuned his characters or story-telling, but it's still better than most modern children's books out there. John McDonaugh does a fabulous job reading these books. I highly recommend this series.
Road trip! I found this book in hardback at the Lakeland public library in 1996 when my daughter was in first grade to read aloud to her before bed. After a run of the Black Stallion books, "Freddy goes to Florida" provided just the right comic relief with a pig protagonist: no scary wolves coming down the chimney; no running around chasing sheep; no Stalinist ideology; no threat of being hung up in the farmer's smokehouse. Freddy the pig is sick of winter up North on Bean Farm. With his barnyard compatriots, he sets out for warmth and fun in the Florida sunshine. No GPS, no map, no motel reservations -- just a plan and a sense of general direction. Mind you, the Florida to which the porcine pilgrim and his cohorts are traveling is a more primitive Florida without air conditioning, professional football, Spring Break/Bike Week, theme parks, Stuckeys, nightmare Interstates and rockets. These days, few travel here for its own sake -- come for the heat, stay for the bugs. Along the way, the travelers encounter various characters - some benign, others not. The "nots" include robbers (think "The Brementown Musicians" but without the violence) and, of course, the obligatory Florida alligators intent on gobbling up as many of our intrepid band as possible. Having had enough "fun", Freddy and his prodigal friends make the return trip to Bean Farm where all is forgiven, the fatted calf (who chose to remain behind and not go AWOL with Freddy) is spared, and Freddy declines an offer to "go to work" for Jimmy Dean. (Just kidding.) This is a wonderful story for a younger child, and a treat for an adult to read aloud. It's a complete fairy tale with a likable ensemble cast (except the 'gators). The book has been recently re-issued, which I guess makes it a quasi-classic.
Freddy Goes to Florida by Walter R Brooks (born January 9, 1886, died August 17, 1958) is the first of the Freddy the Pig books. It was originally published as To and Again (like a precursor to The Hobbit, aka There and Back Again, but with barn animals). After the success of the third book, Freddy the Detective, the first two books were re-named to have Freddy in the title.Freddy is a pig who lives with a variety of other barn animals on Mr. Bean's farm (no, not that Mr. Bean). The dynamics between Freddy and the other animals reminds me of Babe (the movie, not the book by Dick King-Smith). Frankly it wouldn't surprise me one bit if the makers of Babe took some inspiration from the Freddy books to fill out the ensemble cast.Freddy while talking to a barn swallow decides he's had enough of winter on the farm. Migrating to Florida sounds like a grand idea. When he decides to walk to the Sunshine state, the other animals on the farm (including a pair of spiders) decide to follow along. The book chronicles their trip down and back, including some episodic adventures on the way.Freddy and his friends are completely ignorant on what it will take to get to Florida or what to expect along the way. The fun, though, is in the journey itself. They see new things, meet new people and animals, don disguises, duel with alligators, thwart robbers and save the day.To go with the silly text, are equally delightful pen and ink illustrations by Kurt Wiese.
What a great series to read aloud--this is the one that started it all!
How can anyone resist a story of animals that follow the lead of the swallows roosting in their barn, and decide to migrate to Florida for the winter? Especially when the animals have already become your friends (I got to know them in the book "Freddy the Detective"), and they are so clever, work together to overcome hardships, and have so many adventures? This series of books (written by American author Walter R. Brooks from the 1920s-1950s, and out of print for some time), is the American equivalent to English classics such as the Winnie the Pooh series and "The Wind in the Willows", according to the New York Review of Books. I wholeheartedly agree! You get to know and love the characters every bit as well as the barnyard animals in "Charlotte's Web." Highly recommended for children of ALL ages! (Tip to readers: read this book under a cozy electric blanket while there's a sub-arctic blizzard going on outside, for even more enjoyment!)
I love this book.
This is just an awesome book for walking or hiking enthusiasts!
A great little book that no one has ever heard of (and you will never read).
Written in 1927 but still very much relevant today. Stephen Graham was an extraordinary tramp and remains a patron saint of all wild campers. If you love being outside and sleeping under the stars in a wood, by a river, on the beach, at the top of a mountain, then hunt down a copy of this gem and treasure it.
Delightful. Written in 1926 by someone who walks (tramps). I love the dramatic differences between 'tramping' in 1926 and 'backpacking' in 2017 but also the similarities: The love of being outdoors and self-sufficient for the time being.This is admittedly an odd and obscure book, but a very enjoyable read. I never would have known about it but Annie Dillard recommended it somewhere in the midst of Pilgrim at Tinker Creek.
An absolutely magical book, anyone who has ever walked anywhere just for the joy of walking should read this book!
Very entertaining book, I liked it
wanted to read it since school....nothing specialjust bullshit.
Superb! One of my all time favorites! Especially liked the ending.
A must read novel for a science fiction enthusiast.
My edition of this first in Hamsun's "August" trilogy was entitled  Vagabonds, and translated by Eugene Gay-Tifft. (No listing for that edition here in GoodReads.) A big canvas on which Hamsun depicts numerous intertwined characters' lives, focusing primarily on two on-again, off-again traveling buddies Edevart and August. Though little-known today, this is a major work by this Nobel Prize-winner. Great character studies all through, but the reader will identify most with Edevart's crises of love, work, friendship and destiny. The principal tension underlying much of the plotting is the excitement of change, versus the risk of loss it brings. People are leaving the small town of Polden for other places, including America, and sometimes returning -- are they happier? They seem less happy to some of the stay-behinds. Does an increase in one's possibilities offset the restlessness and lack of depth, or rootedness, that such freedom brings with it? Were the Poldeners happier when they stayed on the land, keeping their one or two cows, and working with the seasons -- despite some degree of privation? I could not be sure which of these choices Hamsun himself favored; he wrote both alternatives accurately. One of the little changes mentioned along the way caught at my heart: Edevart's brother complains that some farmers were raising cows to slaughter to sell the veal to rich families, instead of naming them and keeping them as part of the farmer's own family, as they had always done before. This book from the 1920s is moving, often funny, and different from most contemporary fiction -- it's satisfying.
Oh, to be able to live the life of a VAGABOND. Really enjoyed this poignantly rich gem from one of my all-time favorite authors KNUT HAMSUN. Fave lines: "He had no one to talk with, for he was too lowly to mingle with the snobs and too snobbish to mingle with the lowly"&"Rich he was not and he never claimed that he was; but he wore beautiful blue clothes, owned a silver watch and had a few dollars in his pocket" & "The crab must proceed patiently on its long backward journey to the place from whence it started." Loved the wild escapades of the young brash character AUGUST and his more conservative thoughtful friend EDEVART. Great juxtaposition of personalities through various wanderings in times of both happiness and grief. This dense tale is indeed one of those books for the ages. Great read.
This is the third Hamsun book ive read this year and the best. I loved this book, it's just great and the story just moves so naturally and effortlessly, its true that your never gunna need a dictionary when reading Hamsun but who needs to be able to string along aload of big words when your just a phenomenal storyteller like Hamsun. This is kinda like another novel by Hamsun ~ Growth Of Soil, it follows a cast of characters over a number of years as they struggle though life, though all the ups and downs and the changes, there's murder, grave robbing, restlessness and loss love. They are just great characters. One being August, he tells all these tales of adventures that are most likely bullshit but you still want too hear them and the others know he's most likey lying but they love him anyway. What i also like about this book and other Hamsun books is that there is never any throwaway characters or any events that don't pay off someway. It's just a great book. This is the first book in a trilogy, the other two books are pretty hard to come by which makes me sad because i would love to read more, but if i don't get a chance to read the others at least i have this, a great story.With this book ive reached my goal of reading 50 books this year which is awesome. Now onto the next book!
Although Hamsun received the Nobel Prize he isn't widely read anymore. This is a shame. His quiet books have a lot to say about the effect of modern times on man. In this book many of Hansun's themes are on display: restlessness, the effect of industrialization on mankind, Hamsun's dislike of technology in favor of a more agrarian, simple living, the importance of friendship and so on. This is the first in a three part series - although they are only loosely connected. The book focuses on two friends. For me there is a melancholy in his writing that really makes him worth reading and the last few pages, for me at least, have stayed with me for over 10 years. Very good stuff.
My first foray into Norwegian Lit. And it was great - something entirely different. It sort of had a Hardy-ish feel to it. At least, there was some of that grim tied-to-the-land attitude about the villagers. I love how Hamsun brought out the tension between being content (or at least accustomed) with what you have (even if it's a struggle to survive), and the drive to see, be, and have more. Really wonderful writing, I must say. I'm sitting back now, letting it all sink in. Hamsun goes a step further than Hardy, I think, showing what happens when individuals try to rise above their fate, try to improve their lot. Many things are lost, and what is gained? That seems to be the big question. Is knowing, seeing, and having more really "being" more? It's hard for us 21st century folk to comprehend not having access to the wealth of knowledge we have now. The idea of just living with things as they are - I have trouble imagining it. A great book on many levels. It raised a lot of questions.
This book together with  Hunger,  Frankenstein,  1984,  Jurassic Park and  Lost Horizon are my "classic list" to be read.
Well, I loved this. Despite his sometimes hard-to-bare realism, I love Knut Hamsun. I needed some time to get into this. I needed some time to get used to the characters, but when I got used to them, I loved them. Hamsun depicts even the strangest and darkest of human tendencies in such a warm tone. Maybe it's because he never forgets to take into consideration the macro, the society. I have strong opinion towards social critique, in books as well as in general... many people in general seem to think that they can utter a sentence with revolutionary content while acting a certain way and they will become instant revolutionaries while some writers and other artists seem like they don't quite believe - or comprehend - (in) the magical ways in which fiction can deal with society. One of my favourite ways is the theatrical - put so many masks on your statements that people will feel the critique only in the subtones, not in the main message. Nobody will be able to quite put his finger on it. While it seems this is not Hamsun's way, maybe because he's a realist and a naturalist (don't get me wrong - he has some great theatrical scenes with the markets, the ships and the colorful personalities, but theatre doesn't seem to be in his core belief) I really feel Hamsun's criticism towards society is spot on. His way of criticising is through warmth. In his writing, I feel his genuine love towards human beings shines through, and it's freakin' refreshing. I'd go even further and say that constantly being pushed to find warmth in the most unusual of people so beautifully coincides with the contrasting cold, gray weather painted throughout the story. Hamsun's books get me into such a nice state of consciousness. I'd like to keep it forever. I'd like to understand people, even their dark sides, and see how they would be different in another society. Hamsun's world, in a way, is our world - we just have a whole lot of blanks to fill if we want to create a bridge between the two. Barely anything is conceptual or philosophical, everything is to the point exact and well described. The love theme of this novel is my favourite - it so well describes the pain that one feels when he is emotionally commited to a person who lives far away - the anxiety that arises in long-distance communication. And furthermore, the pain that one feels when he realizes that he secretly wants his loved one to stay the same all the time, to not change, for a change might mean a twist in the nature of the relationship. But everything goes on, time keeps on running in Hamsun's novels, it never stops. Time is restless and it destroys so many things, but Hamsun doesn't choose to be all fatalistic and dramatic about it. He rather paints colorful, many times childlish, people in gray towns, people yearning for freedom, financial and existential, people trying to make use of time, or in contrast, people who can't cope with time at all. The characters in this book are beautiful, but at the same time hauntingly pierced with their dark sides - greed, lust, hate, grudge. Because it is so true in real life, this dark/light duality almost seems like a must - on some level - in any kind of fiction. But Hamsun exposes this duality in such a subtle and true-to-life way. I realized that what Hamsun does, at least in the two of his novels I read so far - he constantly tests our ability to be able to extend our understanding towards people; towards people whom we would judge and condemn in real life. He first poses a fact "this guy sold a broken watch" so that he can pose a thousand (subtly interwoven into the text) questions about it afterwards "why did he sell a broken watch?" "what was his relationship to the buyer, did the buyer hurt him before?" "what was the economical situation then?" "what was his personal situation then?" "would he, if he would have gotten a hug beforehand, not commit the felony?" and so on... when you feel like he ran out of questions, 100 pages later he asks you, very smartly, through his flowing language, something like "but... how does this person percieve time... khm... how does this person perceive himself?"BEAUTIFUL! And out of those questions, a thousand new ones arise. But every book has to end. All those questions must stay somewhere!
liked the way this book reflected life and the meaning you can find in the flow of life...
Such an amazing experience not only through out this book but through the whole canon and series. In the last story, I was pleasantly surprised to not have assumed Holmes place in it. I just assumed that Holes would take care of these two individuals. I'll admit, a little short but still worthy of being a Holmes story. Otherwise, seeing as how this has been a first time experience for me, I very much enjoyed it and will come back again in the future.
"And so, reader, farewell to Sherlock Holmes! I thank you for your past constancy, and can but hope that some return has been made in the shape of that distraction from the worries of life and stimulating change of thought which can only be found in the fairy kingdom of romance."Indeed. It's been a long journey for me, Holmes, and Watson, as I imagine it has been for anyone else who has dared to venture through this series in its entirety. It has its ups and downs, with some stories feeling competent but without vigor, and others grabbing your curiosity and not releasing their hold until the final solution is revealed. All in all, the journey is worth taking for these standouts and singular mental exercises. I loved many of these stories, and enjoyed others to a lesser extent. There isn't a weak one in the bunch, but the collection does oscillate in quality from adequate to excellent, as can be expected from any short story collection. The goal of completion is largely what drove me forward, and I would have enjoyed some more parting words from Conan Doyle himself.If you're curious about reading Sherlock Holmes, just go with the best...read The Hound of the Baskervilles and follow that up with The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes. If you enjoy both of those, you may be made of the stuff required to tackle the rest of the collection. If you make it to the end, you'll likely feel similarly about the up and down nature of these mysteries while always appreciating the artistry that went into concocting them.Good show.
Ah Sherlock Holmes, you fail to amaze me. This is the first Sherlock Holmes book that I have read and I did enjoy it immensely. At some moments, I was waiting for the case to become clearer as it began to drag a bit, but the last case (The Last Bow) was absolutely brilliant. It was short; surprising and had a 'Sherlock Holmes' style more than some of the other cases. I thoroughly enjoyed it and cannot wait to read his other cases :)
One of my favourite books, always relaxing and calming me downSHERLOCKED
My goal to read all of the original Holmes stories- 4 novels and 56 stories is accomplished, and was worth every minute invested in it.
Returning to Sherlock Holmes after many years was a pleasure. Conan Doyle's prose is deceptively simple, probably easier to read than write. During the various adventures in this double volume, the relationship between Holmes and Watson develops and deepens. At one point Holmes' calm self-assurance is suddenly penetrated when he believes that he has unnecessarily allowed the good doctor to be wounded. For his part, Watson's affection for his friend still permits him at times to be an amused recorder of the great man's foibles. The mysteries are not - as is the case in modern detective fiction - susceptible to solution by the reader. The key discovery, for all the detective's self-proclaimed 'method of logical analysis,' is often unearthed in some abstruse publication Holmes recalls having read in the distant past, while his numerous cuttings books are also a prolific source of vital information. His Last Bow was first publiished in 1917, The Casebook of Sherlock Holmes a decade later. The attitudes of the times can read uncomfortably today: the majority of the villains are 'foreigners', often 'swarthy,' frequently 'bearded', occasionally 'negroid.' The heroines tend to be memorably beautiful: those from South America are invariably credited with 'tropical passions.' If Conan Doyle is unconvincing with the dialogue he attributes to his thugs and hard men, invariably denizens of 'the East End', and if his portrayal of policemen, whether humble bobbies or Scotland Yard inspectors, as slow-witted, it can readily be accepted as ultimately part of the period charm of these stories. In Sherlock Holmes we have a trail-blazing character who memorably survives the decades.
An entertaining end to the seriesI have enjoyed the other books in the Sherlock Holmes series and I was both excited and sad to begin reading the final novel.I liked the fact that a couple of the cases in this book were from the perspective of Sherlock Holmes himself, something that has never happened in all the previous books. Whilst I like Watson's narration because of its description of Holmes' demeanour, it made a nice change to hear from the great detective himself. There were some amusing moments here and there which made me smile and, as per usual, I was astounded at Holmes' cleverness and reasoning behind his deductions.I would recommend all the books in this series by Conan Doyle to those who enjoy Victorian mysteries and are fans of Sherlock Holmes from the TV and cinema dramatisations of the character.
brilliant nothing i can say that hasnt been already said truly the master the grandfather of all cops and csi original and genius connan doyle missed his calling if he was capable of this red the master enjoy be intrigued and amazed b breathless in awe
His Last Bow is more of the Sherlock Holmes' stories written from 1908 through 1913 in The Strand magazine. There is a feeling of an imminent ending to the entire saga which makes it a bit depressing to realize. Of course, the stories are uniformly outstanding and thrilling to read. Holmes has become more endearing and kind in the stories to Watson and seems to have relaxed his stern attitude towards to life in general. Funny enough, in The Adventure of Wisteria Lodge, Inspector Baynes is the only person ever lauded by Holmes and is said to be his equal. "But why Turkish?" opens the story of The Disappearance of Lady Frances Carfax. Perhaps the most thrilling line from The Adventure of the Devil's Foot is, in a telegraph, "Why not tell them of the Cornish horror-strangest case I have handled." There is something about Arthur Conan Dyole's writing that moves readers so well. All in all, His Last Bow is the penultimate set of Sherlock Holmes stories.
I read this ages ago and wish I still had a copy on my shelf. There is a good chunk available at googlebooks ; check out the ToC.Basic Problems, a lecture course, belongs with that cluster of Heidegger texts which provide an ergänzung of Sein und Zeit, ie, the main thrust of his thinking prior to the famous Kehre. Among that cluster find also the Kant book and The Fundamental Concepts of Metaphysics. Heidegger is clearer and more fun to read than Husserl.
Martin Heidegger's Basic Problems of Phenomenology is no fun to read. When the book is intelligible, it is perceptive; when the book is unintelligible, I'd much rather experience the pain of getting a tattoo. Take this unintelligible paragraph, for example, when Heidegger gets mired in his own jargon-filled mumbo-jumbo (p. 89):We must now specify more particularly this distinctio or this compositio that subsists between essentia and existentia in the case of the ens finitum and see how the distinctio is formulated, in order to obtain from this a clearer view of the sense of essence and existence and to see the problems that emerge here. Notice must be taken--we have already touched on this in our presentation of Kant--that the possible, res, quidditas, also has a certain being: to be possible is different from to be actual. If reality and possibile coincide, it is worthy of note than in Kant reality and possibility belong to different classes of categories, quality and modality. Realitas, too, is a specific mode of being of the real, just as actuality is that of the actual.Look perplexed. Look very perplexed. In general, I think that if it can't be stated clearly, it shouldn't be stated at all.That said, I do think Heidegger has contributed, albeit in unnecessarily obscure prose, a decent account, only occasionally in this work and more specifically in Being and Time, to a richer understanding of the way human beings' everyday activities are largely non-conscious.
There is some books, stories or even characters that you put in the corner of your mind, in the corner of your heart and they follow your everywhere you go. Judith and Roddy follow me everywhere. Rosamond Lehmann isn't well-known here (not for the common readers at least) and I discovered the book thanks to "Atonement" by Ian McEwan (who mentions the book in the novel when a journalist compares Briony's story to "Dusty Answer"). I was curious and chased down the book. There was no more publications of this book and I had to wait almost six months to finally read it. I was so ecstatic the day I got it in my hands...The atmosphere reminds me of "Atonement" in many ways. Early 1900's England, the burden of the war and all the lost it has created. Judith is both a fascinated and fascinating character. We discover her in her early childhood when she was playing with the next-door family, The Fyfe, a group of cousins who came in the english countryside for the holiday. She is really fascinated by all of them: but little by little she becomes more and more attracted by Roddy Fyfe, the artistic and tortured soul. Time passes and one day, Judith is almost an adult. The war has affected the Fyfe family who finally comes back to their grand-mother's house. The reunion between Judith and The Fyfe is really strong and invites all of them to remember their childhood and the feelings they share. There is a twist in the story because when she was a little girl, Judith was fascinated by the Fyfe family but now that she is a grow-up, they are fascinated by her. The power of beauty, the power of mystery... The death of the older member of the family will cause many changes.I love Rosamond Lehmann's writing. It's like a delicate hand which invites you to enter a world of imagination. At the same time, everything seems so real: the scents, the presence of Roddy next to Judith, the trouble she is feeling when he is near to her. The strenght of Judith's feeling almost breaks my heart and the climax of the book is just perfect. You can't have expected anything else between the two characters. The end of a book is really important for me. And the end of "Dusty answer" is just perfect for me. It leaves a taste of nostalgy, a taste of regrets for the things you didn't do or didn't have the courage to tempt at least. It emphasizes the loneliness of all the characters of the novel, like all the pain and all the years didn't have change anything, just as if time couldn't have any impact on the destiny of men. You just try to hang out on something, or someone, and one day you suddenly realize that it's gone away and you didn't even notice. Maybe a dream must remain a dream. George Bernard Shaw writes in "Man and superman", Act 4 (1903): "There is two tragedies in life. One is not to get your heart's desire. The other is to get it". I think that it's a good way to express my state of mind after the last page of the book. The ties between all the characters, the tragedy of resignation and fear (the fear of opening your heart to anybody), the burden of untelling feelings and desires, the weight of death and memories, make this book one of the greatest I have ever read.
Published in 1929, this is the story of Judith Earle, a clever, sensitive, lonely girl, in thrall to the family of glamorous cousins that stay for summers in the house next door. She's home educated and, until she goes to University, has hardly any other companions of her own age and no experience of how to be with them. She's wide open and longing for affection, for experience and romance, and it's painful to watch her ricochet from crush to crush, through ill advised passion and perhaps to actual love. She's gauche and inexperienced and takes everything so seriously, you want to shake her - though her naivity is perfectly understandable. Lehman's descriptions of the natural world are evocative and the there's an almost shocking eroticism lurking beneath the surface of this story. Enjoyably absorbing and revealing about 1920's culture and manners.
Oh, Judith. Judith, Judith, Judith. I love you, I am you and all your foolhardy ways. I really liked this book because Judith is basically cool as cucumber on the outside and a hot mess emotionally inside. The story is slow at parts (I basically could have done without the middle section about how awesome Jennifer is), but worth it in the end. If you don't find yourself screaming out loud "Judith, NO! DON'T!!!!" at one point, then you need mental help.
A writer in the tradition of Elizabeth Bowen and Elizabeth von Arnim. Wish I had discovered her during my college days .. I would have appreciated the book more...
There is some books, stories or even characters that you put in the corner of your mind, in the corner of your heart and they follow your everywhere you go. Judith and Roddy follow me everywhere. Rosamond Lehmann isn't well-known here (not for the common readers at least) and I discovered the book thanks to "Atonement" by Ian McEwan (who mentions the book in the novel when a journalist compares Briony's story to "Dusty Answer"). I was curious and chased down the book. There was no more publications of this book and I had to wait almost six months to finally read it. I was so ecstatic the day I got it in my hands... The atmosphere reminds me of "Atonement" in many ways. Early 1900's England, the burden of the war and all the lost it has created. Judith is both a fascinated and fascinating character. We discover her in her early childhood when she was playing with the next-door family, The Fyfe, a group of cousins who came in the english countryside for the holiday. She is really fascinated by all of them: but little by little she becomes more and more attracted by Roddy Fyfe, the artistic and tortured soul. Time passes and one day, Judith is almost an adult. The war has affected the Fyfe family who finally comes back to their grand-mother's house. The reunion between Judith and The Fyfe is really strong and invites all of them to remember their childhood and the feelings they share. There is a twist in the story because when she was a little girl, Judith was fascinated by the Fyfe family but now that she is a grow-up, they are fascinated by her. The power of beauty, the power of mystery... The death of the older member of the family will cause many changes. I love Rosamond Lehmann's writing. It's like a delicate hand which invites you to enter a world of imagination. At the same time, everything seems so real: the scents, the presence of Roddy next to Judith, the trouble she is feeling when he is near to her. The strenght of Judith's feeling almost breaks my heart and the climax of the book is just perfect. You can't have expected anything else between the two characters. The end of a book is really important for me. And the end of "Dusty answer" is just perfect for me. It leaves a taste of nostalgy, a taste of regrets for the things you didn't do or didn't have the courage to tempt at least. It emphasizes the loneliness of all the characters of the novel, like all the pain and all the years didn't have change anything, just as if time couldn't have any impact on the destiny of men. You just try to hang out on something, or someone, and one day you suddenly realize that it's gone away and you didn't even notice. Maybe a dream must remain a dream. George Bernard Shaw writes in "Man and superman", Act 4 (1903): "There is two tragedies in life. One is not to get your heart's desire. The other is to get it". I think that it's a good way to express my state of mind after the last page of the book. The ties between all the characters, the tragedy of resignation and fear (the fear of opening your heart to anybody), the burden of untelling feelings and desires, the weight of death and memories, make this book one of the greatest I have ever read. (less) [edit]not set [edit]Aug 06, 2010
Memory is a strange thing. I read this book once perhaps fifteen years ago, more or less, and in my memory Judith's childhood & her fascination with her neighbours during it was the bulk of the book, and the time at Cambridge just a little piece at the end. Reading it again now, I find that is not how it is structured at all; perhaps the first third is the flashback to her childhood, and then a very long part at Cambridge, and then another section afterwards. And of course, as I am older, I read Judith differently as well; there was a time when I took for granted her (view spoiler)[stubborn narcissism, the way that she sees the Fyfe children all as characters in her own drama and attempts through blind willpower to make them play the roles she has assigned. The section on her childhood daydreams is very telling -- she does not (until the very end of the book) move out of that world in which she is the director of the action and everyone else is there to allow her to perform the image of herself that will best feed her ego. Nor is it surprising that she finds them all enigmas; when one does not see people as fully human and with their own interiority, their actions often seem a series of random events connected by thin threads -- or else by a narrative of one's own creation that they are always spoiling. (hide spoiler)]This is not to say that she is a terrible person; I do not think she is, just young and without any grounding -- she has some rules to get by on, but no idea what the rules are for, what it is that they are supposed to be guiding her towards and protecting her (and others) from. And then, the lesbianism -- which Lehmann claimed was not there, but that she did so fascinates me. For I found it impossible to read (view spoiler)[Jennifer and Judith's relationship as anything but a love story, one marred by the cultural conditions that don't allow them to know that they are in love, but also by Judith's inability to see other people as truly real in themselves. Judith loves Jennifer in part because of what Jennifer represents or symbolises -- I am paraphrasing but there is a point in which she says that Jennifer is the part of herself she cannot usually get access to, the wild, free part. It is not an uncommon way for young people to love, but it is not a perspective that considers relationship and the needs of others. Judith's jealousy of Geraldine is entirely understandable, but frustrating as well, as she is not able to consider what it is that Jennifer wants and needs. If Judith could see Jennifer truly, then she could think about what she wishes to do next, where she wants the relationship to go, if she is willing to set out on the precarious course of being a lesbian in the 1920s or if she would rather stay in safety -- but as it is, Judith simply flails about, flinging her emotions around on everyone and focusing on Roddy as the person who will rescue her from herself by giving her a narrative she can follow. And when that fails, when their sex is simply pleasure for him, she is furious with him for misleading her, but also for herself for being misled -- as Roddy said, he had been clear all along what his intentions were, and had warned her again and again not to take him seriously. Is it his fault that Judith insisted on believing he was a character in a romantic novel (or one of her daydreams) who was playing the heart-broken bad boy soo that she could prove her worth by redeeming him? Judith is angry with him for it, but she also sees her own fault, and I think this is the beginning of her maturity. (hide spoiler)]The more I write about this, the more I realise how much power this book has -- I simply cannot treat these characters as anything other than actual people, and I understand in a way I am not certain I have words for how Lehmann could insist there was no lesbianism in the book and yet be wrong -- she wrote what she saw and knew, very accurately, and the words for those things have changed, there are ideas about people and relationship now that she did not really have access to. I am very glad I reread it with adult eyes, and I think I will read more Lehmann; this is her first novel, and I wonder how they changed with her own adulthood.
This is Lehmann's first novel, from 1927. I didn't realize it is her most famous, a "succès de scandale" for its "sensitive treatment of homosexuality" (in 1970s jacket copy, the "treatment" is always either "sensitive" or "frank").Judith, an intelligent only child of well-to-do but emotionally distant parents, educated at home, becomes infatuated with the neighboring children, who are siblings and cousins all living with one grandmother (for a variety of reasons - they are not orphaned). She sees them off and on over a decade and by young adulthood goes through a series of entanglements with three of the young men, always one-sided and ill-fated and overhung by her torrid Cambridge relationship with the elusive Jennifer. I am making it sound like a bit of a soap opera but Lehmann is an elegant writer and creates complex characters - this is the 4th or 5th novel of hers I've read.Her own life was quite storied - leaving her first husband (2nd Viscount) for a 2nd Baron (who, before acceding to his hereditary title, ran for the House of Commons as a Communist), left the latter for a 9-year affair with Cecil Day-Lewis - etc!
Brilliant portrayal of damaged and broken lives.
A forgotten British classic that for some reasons has always been popular in some parts of Europe - it seems never to have been out of print in France. -The prose is exquisite, Lehmann's gift with the English language is amazing and you want to remember most of her sentences for their sheer beauty and the emotions they convey. It's also one of the most beautiful, tender, and melancholic books ever written about adolescence and loss, and it captures the fleeting, elusive complexities of this time in life like few novels have been able to do. If only for this book, Lehmann remains of the great British writers of her time.
Outside, where the gentle dusk glimmered on rain-wet branches, the bird-calls were like sudden pale jets of light, coming achingly to the mind; and all at once the sun, like a bell, struck out a poignant richness, a long dark-golden evening note with tears in it, searching all the land with its fullness and dying slowly into a obscurer twilight. The tree-tops were quiet against the sky. There was no leaf upon them: yet, in that liquid mauve air, they stirred in her a sudden soft pang, a beating of the heart, and were, for a moment, the whole of the still hidden spring.There's a lot of this lilac nature description. I don't think the things described tend to be very happy. Trembling, overwhelmed with their own realisation, at best. It suits the kind of emotional cornucopia this book is, full of deliciously melancholy excess of emotion. It's a juicily archetypal book about youth, in a very feminine way.Judith is one of those lonely only children in love with a family, four boys and a girl. The family flutters in and out of her life without warning. I liked the descriptions of the painful jarring it is to have someone who has become a comfortable occupant of your mind appear in reality. Lehmann later described Judith as "a revolting character really, soppy." This is true enough. She's about as wet as they come. But I'm a sucker for a wanter. In childhood she has a crush on tempestuous golden boy Charlie, though reliable plodding Martin has a crush on her. After he's killed in WWI she quite deliberately transfers her affections to the slightly odd, distant Roddy, while having the odd moment of camaraderie with prickly, pretentious Julian.Nothing really happens. There's no actual romance in this book. Judith goes off to Cambridge without getting to consummate any of her feelings. There she has a passionate friendship with Jennifer, a charismatic girl full of golden life, who breaks her heart by running off to be a lesbian amid great drama. Roddy occasionally visits her. She thinks they have a moments, though it's hard for her to be sure. Martin occasionally visits her, but she finds it hard to let him pine, even though she values him for his connection to Roddy.Finally she offers herself to Roddy and finds he's not that into her. I did wish Judith had acknowledged that she deliberately decided to be in love with Roddy, so as to be in love. Everyone is in love with someone who's in love with someone else. The book ends with the dustiest answer Lehmann can devise, the classic ending of this variant of the bildungsroman. Everything Judith has invested in has disappeared. She will have to somehow create something new, but this book is all tragedy and doomed glorious youth. Like I said, I like wanting and this book is all about wanting.
Oh my I loved this novel. It is amazing to think that this novel first published in 1927 was Rosamund Lehmann's first novel. It is so beautifully written, passionate and finely observed. The voices of these young people resonate wonderfully. Their manner of speech could seem affected and odd in these modern times, and yet it serves to demonstrate and bring to life for us now, the times and emotional confusions of so many young people between the wars. This novel must have caused quite a stir upon it's publication, as the naive Judith becomes enamoured first of Jennifer whilst at Cambridge, and then falls recklessly in love with Roddy, one member of the Fyfe family who had so mesmerised her as a child. The lives of Judith and the Fyfe family are dramatic, sad and sometimes hopeless.
I loved this book of young love.Judith Earle has always been in love with each of her four cousins.Summers spent playing outside in the countryside.All will change when Judith goes to Cambridge college and meets Jennifer!A coming of age novel where one learns who to love and trust.It's hard to believe this was Rosamond's first novel.I will be looking out for more of her wonderful books.
Bits reminded me of my loves Brideshead Revisited & The Great Gatsby & The Secret History but the narrator is more level with her longed for objects of desire: her family is well of, she's clever & pretty & has smart clothes & when she is heartbroken she gets to escape to France & have a love affair yet it isn't good enough for her still. This book is muddled because everyone longs for someone who isn't around & they lead people on who love them. No one is ever good enough. Everyone is rotten in this book. The prose is beautiful though & parts I adored. Reading more Lehmann soon.
I bought this because apparently the sexuality of the main character, being attracted to both men and women, made it quite scandalous. As I'm fascinated by her gay sister I thought it might give an interesting insight into the period. Unfortunately, I just found it a little dull. The problem with the book was that it just felt totally juvenile. The part where they were teenagers felt like they were children, the part where she was at university felt like she was away at boarding school. The male characters all blended together and everyone felt very dull and posh. There was none of the gorgeous language or strong emotions I found in Beatrix's books. To me the best part was the last section, it felt like people had grown up a little more. The only character I really liked was Jennifer. She seemed like a tragic lesbian caught in a children's story. I did so want her to get together with Judith at the end. Overall I was quite disappointed though. I was expecting so much more. Colette did it so much better.
i really loved this book and took my time with it. although written in 1927, it is still terribly relevant. a beautiful coming of age story about a girl exploring love and friendship. i was really shocked by how lovely and wistful this novel was. lehmann was clearly a modern, forward thinking woman.
What I liked most about this book was the insight into the characters. Also, strong female characters for the time it was written. Stayed in my mind for a long time afterwards.
I give this 3 1/2 stars. It was stunningly written--quite beautiful. I loved Judith as well. The story itself was a bit odd and meandering, though I enjoyed it for the most part. Other reviewers describe it much better than I can and some make excellent points.
When taken in perspective this is a fascinating creation. Based on a lost manuscript written when Ms. Follett was nine years old, she rewrote it from memory at the age of twelve and was published and acclaimed by the age of thirteen. It represents a singular look into the mind of a child and the imagination of a prodigy. Her father credits this miracle on both the nature of his daughter and technology:"And, almost above all, having used a typewriter as a plaything from a time that she can't remember, she was able to rattle off an easy 1200 words an hour, without any awareness of the physical process, years before penmanship could have developed half the proficiency, even with intense concentration on the physical process alone."He gives us hope to say the least that social media and texting may realize a positive aspect for our youth and our culture before it is has run its course in our civilization. In some ways the keyboard may reflect the only way that a written record can be created for the experience of the child's world. The story foreshadows the future life choices of Ms. Follett including issues of love, insecurity, and abandonment. It is heartrending to read the conclusion of the novel when one reflects on the fact that one night in 1939 Barbara left her home with $30 in her pocket and was never seen again. She appears to have succumb to her thoughts and feelings recorded in her personal correspondence from 1930, "My dreams are going through their death flurries. They are dying before the steel javelins and arrows of a world of Time and Money."It is also a joyful tale of freedom and the idealization of the primitive. Its uniqueness is as a novel, a de novo in the original sense of the word.
It's hard to rate because the story of the story is so incredible that it overwhelms any critique in my mind. It gets repetitive near the end of book 1, but aside from that the combination of genuinely lush prose, intoxicating innocence, and the heartbreaking but awe-inspiring realization that it was all written by a very lonely, very talented young girl make it a singular and hypnotic experience. Every reader should read the story of Barbara Follett and then read this short and etherial opus.
i read this book when i was 11 years old. and was deeply moved by it. i remember wanting to be like eepersip, living like a forest spirit. the ending hurt a little but also gave my early self a sense of flight. it's really hard to describe this book but if you can find a copy, read it. if you look up barbara newhall follet, you will see that her personal life was as odd and eerie as her writing... i hope she was able to be free like the character in her story...Judging from some of the reviews by people who don't get it or are underwhelmed by the story, i can honestly say that I am glad i read it as a child without the filters that slam into place as we get older. i identified with her on so many levels as i believe only a child really can.
Enchanting, whimsical, and full of expressive delightful details, especially for the child-age of the author at the time. A window into the mind of a child's world through her eyes.Read for personal research and pleasure. I found this work of immense interest.I found this book's contents helpful and inspiring - number rating relates to the book's contribution to my needs.Overall, this work is also a good resource for the researcher and enthusiast.
A delightful childhood reverie of nature as nature is for us before the world of civilization seizes us in its merciless steel jaws and gulps us down whole.The "house without windows" is the outdoors--nature--the opposite of the confining, closed-upon-itself thing we call a house:"A house, a detested house--one of those houses that she had run away from. Everything came back to her--those foolish coverings on the floors which they called carpets, at the windows those useless decorations called curtains. To think of it! when there was a carpet so much lovelier of green grass or of white sand--and no windows to be curtained!"In nature, however:"How light it was, with all the world a window, instead of those silly little peep-holes fringed about! How much more glowing everything was! Oh, nothing in a house could compare with the world of light that Eepersip lived in!" Follett's protagonist's attention to and immersion in nature is also an attention to and immersion in the present moment, reminding me of Richard Jefferies' comment in his autobiography, The Story of My Heart, that, “It is eternity now. I am in the midst of it. It is about me in the sunshine; I am in it as the butterfly in the light-laden air. Nothing has to come; it is now. Now is eternity; now is the immortal life.”That goes some way in explaining the vague time sense of Follett's story...years pass but the child grows no older, everything lasts seemingly forever until it is past and forgotten. Events, places, friends: enjoyed while present, forgotten as soon as out of sight. "Forgetfulness!" she whispered to herself. "Oh, I loved it so! and then, when it happened that I came to the woodlands again, why--I forgot it!" Eepersip says of the sea.Some may see the author's version of herself in Eepersip as somehow unempathetic and self-centered. Perhaps, and maybe Follett's troubled adult love-life is an expression of that in her later life. But this book was written by a child, with a child's undeveloped mind, which is still marveling at itself and the sheer amazingness of existing, and discovering what existence is. So I don't think we should read too much into Eepersip's disconnectedness from others. But--who knows?The book, once long out of print and a rare find, is now out of copyright and available on-line for free from this site:https://sites.google.com/site/thehous...You can read the original 1927 Saturday Review of Literature review of the book here: http://www.farksolia.org/feb-19-1927-...
How hard is it to rate this book. I found it at a secondhand bookstore and was drawn to it... then when I read the back cover I knew I had to read it. You can not really read the story without thinking about the amazing story behind this little author. It is quite amazing, yet very descriptive of nature's details. It is fairytale like, and so dreamy. A bit odd as well perhaps. There was a little note inside the book that asks to leave the book somewhere so it could disappear just like Eepersips, just like Barbara...
While not a great book, that fact that it was written by an 12 year old girl is remarkable. Very much worth a read. It can be downloaded here: https://sites.google.com/site/thehous...
I thought this was going to be a horror like Room (good book, horrific situation) but it was delightful.
The House Without Windows is a strange book. It tells the story of Eepersip, a young girl who runs away from her mother and father to live in the forest and make friends with the animals. So far, so fairytale, right?It’s particularly odd, though, because it was written by a young girl. Apparently a young girl with one hell of a talent for daydreaming. As such, it reads very strangely. Her father helped her with spelling and grammar but didn’t touch any of the content. As a result, the text is readable but the story is very naive, as of course, you would expect of a story written by a child.This should all be fine. I should have just read it as an interesting insight into a child’s imagination. Something that could only possibly have been produced before a kid became sufficiently self-conscious and self-critical to reject all notions of writing anything like this. It’s absolutely true that if you’re interested in how the imagination of children develops, then this is probably a must-read.So I should clarify that this is my failing, but I couldn’t enjoy the book. The naivety annoyed me. I kept reading passages and thinking things like “Oh for God’s sake, shut up Eepersip. No, you can’t make a dress out of flowers, it’d be structurally unsound.” Eepersip needs to face the real world.
I was oscillating between 3 and 4 stars. I will settle for 3 and half stars. I think the last few stories tipped the scale. Or else would have ended up a four star book.The book obviously has two collections of stories - THE INNOCENCE OF FATHER BROWN & WISDOM OF FATHER BROWN. For the first section I can give four stars. And the next section deserves three stars. But that is not to say that I did not enjoy reading the stories. I enjoyed reading these stories. They are absolutely lovely and Father Brown is a charming character. The mysteries (these are supposed to be detective stories) are not far too complex but still some of them are intriguing. The pleasure is in the language and the satirical remarks of G. K. Chesterton. If I were an English, I would appreciate all the more this work. For many references are related to England and its politics. There are plenty more for the non-English to enjoy as well. His witty takes on the modern society and its culture; the over dependence on science; (if Catholic) the witty critical remarks on Anglicanism, and Calvinism. You can read these witty remarks and I am sure you will not be able to control the chuckle or at times even the laughter.Happy that I got introduced to Father Brown.
My grandmother gave me this book after college, and seven years later, I finally gave it a try. The Father Brown stories are delightful! I even solved some of the mysteries before the other characters, which I am usually unable to do. I think this just means the mysteries aren't generally that complex, but I'll take it. Chesterton uses Brown not as a preaching mouthpiece, thank goodness, but as a sort of Catholic guide through the tales, should we choose to meditate on the spiritual aspects of the crimes and criminals. Should you choose not to, that's okay, the stories still stand up as fun little detective tales. Especially before Flambeau's taming.
I wish that goodreads let you do 1/2 stars, b/c I feel like book should get 3 1/2...so I rounded up. Anyways, I liked the stories a lot, quite entertaining, and not a hard read at all. G.K. Chesterton made Father Brown so incongruous(sp?) that I would read his name and then forget the stories were about him...very cool.
These are truly delightful stories, particularly the ones from Chesterton's first collection -- no accident then that they form the bulk of this collection. There is something I just absolutely love about Chesterton's prose, his lurid descriptions of landscapes that set the scene with mountains f glorious adjectives. His sense of humour too, I remember while reading it I kept jogging my partner's elbow and showing him phrases I particularly enjoyed or that made me laugh -- not something I am usually inspired to do! I didn't mark them however, too much marking and working through books for the dissertation I think! But this was the perfect counterpoint.
The first question a spoiler would ask "5 Star " and that too for a poor detective story / book!!!!! Yes. While Father Brown does solve crimes, he is not a detective in the true genre of Conon Doyle or Ellery Queen. He is not even a detective of Erle Stanley genre. The crimes solved have hardly any gore, blood or multiple bodies in Agatha Christie genre - these are the detective stories that deserve 4, 5 and more stars. - Definitely not Father Brown. Why I enjoyed Father Brown stories is the underlying analysis based purely on psychology maybe helped by some clues and incidents. I would just refer to the tale of "The Queer Feet" - why does the same person walk with a stately tread immediately after pattering lightly outside the room where Father Brown was seated? How is it possible for the same person to do so - he must be a great actor. Flambeau was not only a thief of greatest notoriety but also a master of disguise and acting.Similar would be the case of the Invisible Man. Four respectable witnesses vouch that no one entered the building, but the man did it in full view, murdered his rival in live and walked out carrying the dead body - why - this again is in the realm of psychology, the way we think, etc.If any other detectives come close to Father Brown, I would immediately cast my vote in favour of "The Black Widowers" created by Issac Asimov, who in their monthly meetings resolve many a unsolved mysteries. It needs a different approach and taste to enjoy the tales of Father Brown or maybe tales of The Black Widowers and those who can will definitely appreciate and second my award of 5 Stars.I enjoyed Father Brown immensely, the only regret being, I too felt bosh - what a funny tale - Detective Father Brown indeed - when my Dad introduced me to the character a few decades back.
Thoroughly enjoyed reading these stories, though they are extremely predictable at times.
I read a few stories and they were clever, but an entire collection? No, really, I couldn't. Like a plateful of brownies, one is deelish, but all piled together like that would make me sick. Maybe one day I'll read a few more stories, but no more than one at a sitting please.
If I had started with Chesterton's detective stories about Father Brown maybe I would have had an easier way with other books in the same gender. His stories are plain simple but delightful. I'd recommend Father Brown to young teenagers.
A collection of short detective stories. Generally pretty good. Centered on understanding motivation, rather than observing details. Never invite Father Brown to a dinner party unless you want someone murdered.
Meh.
i loved the stories at the first chapter more than the second.
Beautifully written, succinct, charming and clever.
Father Brown had been there in the shadows all my reading life, either by living reference or by literary reference, so I decided to take the bull by the horns and read a collection of him. He is indeed charming and idiosyncratic. True to his period, his stories move slowly, which makes them a fine panacea when you need to drop off to sleep quickly. But don't dismiss his true originality and sharp-wittedness in the slow-moving plots. After all, pace is only one part of the quartet of what make up a good novel, and perhaps good stories appertain to a different standard. Father Brown, himself, is original and brilliant, though in a light under a bushel basket kind of way. He would never want the appellation "brilliant" applied to him. He'd rather drift down a river on a barge with a good friend, fishing. Excellent reading, but you must be patient.
Exquisite. The origins of Cocteau's homosexuality - his struggles with it because of its overlap with the notion of authentic "love", the inner conflict between sensuality and spirituality and how the artist in himself takes the final call. Very short and succinct book with some amazing sections.
3.5I loved the prose.
I love Cocteau - his movies, his writing and his hot doodles of naked men!
I do not see any reason for anyone to tolerate someone else. Well, that is just the way I look at things and believe should be. On the other hand, there are reasons why people think or may be confuse the two terms – acceptance and tolerance, and more so when it comes to sexual orientation. I honestly believe that somewhere down the line we make too much of it. It isn’t like it is a novelty you know, and yet it is perceived as one. How does gender matter when two people love or adore each other? How does it even make a difference when two people want to indulge in sex and have a good time? I have never understood it and don’t intend to either. For me it is clear: My happiness comes first and it should. With such thoughts I am talking about a book I read a long time ago and now reread it, dealing with sexual orientation and how it impacts people. “Le Livre Blanc” or “The White Book” by Jean Cocteau was first published in 1928 and it so happened that Cocteau decreed that it be published anonymously. It was however later, somewhere in 1953 that the author’s identity came to fore. Why did Cocteau want this work published anonymously? Because it dealt with his coming to terms with his so called homosexual identity. The book is semi-autobiographical in nature and he did not want to be tormented by people when they came to know that he was gay. The book is about his affairs, his school, his desires, his wanting to fight those desires and finally coming to terms with them. “Le Livre Blanc” is about coming to terms with who you are and what are its implications. The book is a quick read. It does not mull so much about the topic as I would have liked it to, but that is alright. I guess that was the author’s prerogative. The drawings are beautiful. They almost make you want to fall in love. “Le Livre Blanc” is a raw mediation on desire and about finding one’s identity. It is melancholic and about forbidden love. A book that sure should be read by all. A must read about a topic that is different and needs much thought and contemplation.
A brilliant little book. Anger, love, violence and longing. A complete contrast to modern romantic gay fiction, and despite it never being formally acknowledged by Cocteau, unmistakeably him.
Once, a Narcissus who pleased himself approached his mouth to the mirror, pressed his lips to it and pressed his adventure with himself all the way through to the end. Invisible like the Greek gods, I put my lips to his and imitated his gestures. Never was he to know that instead of reflecting him, the mirror had acted, had lived and loved him.Interesting to see some veritably ancient gay lit that criticizes the tired story of tolerance.
1.5
A surprise, as this book as been on my to read shelf for ages because it didn't really appeal to me. A good surprise actually, for the superb irony as for the brilliant dialogues. A classic that is worth reading, especially when it is at the same time so easy and so clever!
Sarcastic at times, witty, many grains of truth about human nature and a warning of what happens when a love of the 'system' overtakes common sense.
Hilarious !
A favorite play! I performed this on stage with a small company in front of a very small audience in Salt Lake City in early 1993 (7 shows)! I played the pharmacist. Wonderful humor.
Turns out I don't really enjoy the Wodehouse stories set in the US that much. There English setting adds a charm that is missing in the NY based stories. It was funny but not the hysterical "how can this all come together" funny that we come to expect from Wodehouse.
It's the real ginger. I needed a book to cheer me up and it did exactly that. So funny and ridiculous and unpredicable. Perfectly Wodehouse.
A very convoluted plot but exceedingly amusing as ever.
Good.
All right, all right, all right.
a hilarious rollercoaster.... :)
I love wodehouse, and this book illustrates why. Farcical, plummy, and delightful for a quick, light read to cheer up the November skies. A refreshing interlude, and pure escapism for me.
Here is a warning followed by a note,Don’t you read this tale on a train or a boat;There will be no one around with whom you can share,Each bloke will fix you with their perplexed stare.That’s what happens on a Wodehouse ride,You will guffaw at each turn and chuckle at each stride!Characters:J. Hamilton Beamish is a debonair scholar who is a stickler for proper words used in communication and is a living image of style and grandeur. He has booklets giving advice for everything ranging from poultry farming to poetry! This character was so well defined that I felt he would point out a serious mistake in this sentence, were he to read it! He strongly believes that love is an emotion to be felt only after careful calculation and reasoning.George Finch is a great friend of Mr. Beamish but is strikingly contrasting in personality. He is mild, docile and has recently fallen in love at first sight with Miss Molly who is a neighbor.“I class him among Nature’s white mice,” as described by Beamish.Mullet – A butler / valet for both these gentlemen and a burglar in his past! “A man with an abhorrent vocabulary,” as described by Beamish.Sigsbee H Waddington – He is the richest and meekest personality among all the characters. But he literally stands out since he has this eccentric habit of forgetting names. “He seems to have been kicked by a mule on his head during childhood,” as described by Beamish.Mrs. Waddington – The second wife of Mr. Waddington, she is a woman of strong personality and dominates everyone in her home and outside as well!“She has a soul like the underside of a flat stone”, as described by Beamish.Story: Any work of P.G.Wodehouse has a wafer thin story line made complex by little side plots bound by hilarious dialogs and odd character descriptions. This one is no different. How George Finch manages to gain entry into the family, pursues his lady-love in his own blundering ways and marries her forms the crux of the story. After reading this book in hard copy, I also listened to the audio version narrated by renowned actor Jonathan Cecil. Exclaiming at the twists, stammering for the weak characters’ dialogs, speaking with eloquence for the stronger ones and providing voice-overs to the vast number of individuals, the narrator has made the listening experience thoroughly enjoyable!The entire book is filled with quotable quotes, listing a few of them:Marriage is not a process for prolonging the life of love, sir. It merely mummifies its corpse.He had that extra four or five inches of neck which disqualifies a man for high honors in the beauty competitionI could make a poet out of far less promising material. I could make a poet out of two sticks and a piece of orange peel.My Opinion: It has always been a tremendously difficult task to review the works of P.G. Wodehouse. His books pose a big challenge for reviewing due to their complex plots and hilarious misunderstandings among characters. The rich vocabulary usage laced with meticulous similies and laughable yet plausible character descriptions make this dish extremely enjoyable.
This is the first time I've read anything of Wodehouse's. I had never heard of him. This book was recommended to me, byou someone who spoke highly of Wodehouse. I'm very glad they did. It reminded me of a classic film, like a 1940s rom-com. The best more specific the 1940 film "The Philadelphia Story". (I completely saw Cary Grant as Hamilton Beamish. Lol!) Honestly, given time I could probably cast an entire 1940s movie with all the greats based of this book. This book is filled with great characters. - • While reading some parts did lose me, but it always brought me back pretty quickly. I know this style isn't for everyone, but I think everyone should still read it. - •It's a light-hearted, comical little tale. It's gets better after you read and get to sit back and think about. I found myself chuckling at things after I finished, that I didn't laugh at while reading. It's a great book, and now I can't wait to read more by Wodehouse. -(Also this book reminds me of the book "Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day", by Winifred Watson. Another great book, published 11 years after this book. If you like the Small Bachelor, definitely give Miss Pettigrew a read.)
This book started its life as a musical stage-comedy and, at first, it looked as if this would be a weakness: the early chapters are dense with Wodehouse's wonderful prose, but thinner on what you might call the meat of the thing. You could even tell where a song or two might have been inserted. This, however, was not to last, and when the plot began to thicken, landing poor George Finch firmly in the mulligatawny, you could see the book was going to be a classic high-speed farce. By the last few chapters, the action is fast and furious, but still visibly a stage play in origin (in that the action takes place in what could easily be one stage set) and the denouement is superb and satisfying.There's something of a Wodehouse revival going on at the moment. With the new Blandings TV series and the return of Jeeves and Wooster to the West End stage, I hope what we are seeing is only the beginning and that plays like this will soon be dusted off and lovingly presented to the masses. Even if I had to be one of the standees with the tough eggs at the back, I'd certainly go to see this one staged.
The short opening chapter of just over three lines sets the scene in the Sheridan Arpartment House in New York. The second paragraph then commences:"The Sheridan stands in the heart of New York's Bohemian and artistic quarter. If you threw a brick from any of its windows, you would be certain to brain some rising young interior decorator, some Vorticist sculptor or a writer of revolutionary version libre. And a very good thing too." Instantly you know you are in safe hands and Wodehouse is on form again.Others have talked of the plot, and there does seem to be more of it than usual in a Wodehouse book, but the laughs keep coming and the usual wordplay shines brilliantly. It might not be as good as some of my favourite Blandings or Psmith books, but that is no reason not to give it 5 stars.
Small the bachelor may be, but this is a giant book. It's all here: love, loss, and good advice about what to do when a pickpocket shows up at your wedding claiming to be your sordid scarlet woman past. This is an early Wodehouse set in New York, and we get a bit of additional fun from the Englishman's slightly skewed take on how Americans speak and act. If you haven't read it, and need a night off from your worries, this is the book and the author for you. If you have read it, the plot is much like other Wodehouse novels, so you won't let that stop you. Read it again and enjoy it just as much.
this was my first p. g. wodehouse book. though it wasn't part of any of the jeeves series, i feel like i at least got a taste of wodehouse's style. this novel was light and funny and endlessly optimistic about love and circumstance. i quite enjoyed it as a quick fun read. i particularly liked the cover illustration of the edition i had, which displayed a very tiny, cute, bespectacled bachelor man holding dumbbells on the roof of his nyc apt. super cute.
I am completely in love with P.G.Wodehouse and have been for years! As a writer he is so incredibly talented. Wodehouse has the incredible ability to immerse you into the most wonderful completely ludicrous world. If you are ever in need of a pick me up or simply need to read. laugh out loud kind of book this one is for you. My top 5 Wodehouse reads for sure!
I have nothing but admiration for P.G Wodehouse. When he is on form the world is a better place: the sun shines brighter, the birds sing sweeter; misunderstandings multiply like weevils in a flour jar, bursts of wit flash past like brilliantly unconventional similes, and the whole is carried off with a breezy insouciance that belies the careful balance of the thing. Wodehouse is sublime and silly. Wodehouse is glorious and innocent. Wodehouse is an author whom everyone should read... just not in this case. It's a shame, but there you are, and if I'm moaning it's because he set the bar so high. The trouble is, you see, that this one isn't top drawer material. Don't misunderstand me, it's not down there languishing with the old jumpers and belated mothballs either, it's just not... quite... right. It started out as a stage-show, and it tells. That isn't to say that there aren't some cracking lines, some decent characters (maybe not top-notch, but decent), and a plot that... Well, Wodehouse can do with the middle of a story what it takes a small kitten to do with a ball of string, of course, but... What am I trying to say? Perhaps I should just say it and have done. Well, then, it doesn't flow quite as well as it might. A great Wodehouse novel flows. It may be an intricately plotted mechanism, but it doesn't feel like one. It feels light and effortless. It feels easy. Now I know, and you know, and the rest of the world knows that it doesn't work like that. Nobody just flings open a window, scoops up a pen, and sends out words to flitter prettily hither and thither amidst the buttercups and daisies and whatnot. It takes craft and skill and effort to do it. It takes great skill and Herculean effort (by which I do not mean animal handling, slaying things, and civil-engineering in the name of housework) to make it look like you've made no effort at all. Normally Wodehouse could do that, and if he couldn't manage it with one hand tied behind his back and a bucket on his head, he could at least fool you into thinking that he could. The Small Bachelor, though... It's because he was working with recycled material, no doubt. The opening chapters are... that's a stage-set he's describing, not a real place. Those are actors playing parts, not the characters themselves. The clever descriptive bits have been inserted, and because of that they don't necessarily fit that well... and he can't quite resist telling us he's being clever. In a Jeeves & Wooster the Shakespearean references are buried in the dialogue, here they're openly stated. Which is fine, but seems out of place. One or two characters are inconsistent and, what is worse: THERE ARE NO AUNTS! That's right, not one. Nary an aunt, in fact. There's a fearsome female, the stepmother, but no aunts. What is life without hope? What is spring without sunshine? What is Wodehouse without aunts? Then, too, the happy ending is a little off, with couples marching off two-by-two in sequence, and seems a touch abrupt. Like so.
Definitely not the finest work of Wodehouse. The same old formula of situational comedy but lacking the endearing quality that often accompanies his scenes and characters. Even the usual wordplay wasn't that good.
This is going to be short. This story was terrible and it has Lovecraft's racism and xenophobia on full display. I think if he could have torched New York and wiped it clean of those he saw as inferior he would have.The Horror at Red Hook tells a story taking place in the 1920s with a New York police detective named Thomas Malone. Malone is left disturbed by an incident that left several people dead.Lovecraft then works backwards telling how a rich and eccentric old man named Robert Suydam. Suydam ends up buying property in Red Hook and people are disappearing. The police believe something nefarious is happening, but can't prove it. And then suddenly Suydam seems to be slowly reverse aging and marries a young 20 year old distant relative of his.The story jumps around too much to really get a handle on the story. Lovecraft doesn't include the Chulthu mythos at all. Instead it seems to be about human sacrifice and Lilith. I don't get what caused Suydam to be turned against unless that was the plan all along. And the ending with Malone being buried after falling into another portal and witnessing what Suydam was up to was pretty lame. The story honestly put me to sleep for a few minutes and I was not happy when I woke up and realized I still want done right this story. It is short though and I finished in it about 25 minutes (nap included).
A great story, I thought! Lovecraft uses his style of prose quite nicely in my opinion at the end and the storyline and frightful atmosphere are very well presented. Even though the key basis for this story was xenophobia, I honestly don't feel that this marred it, as most do. The racism adds something of vulgar touch to the horror in my opinion and Lovecraft can be excused for being human with faults like the rest of us :) Obviously, I'd rather he wasn't a racist, but there isn't much that I can do; he is dead, after all. This tale is wonderfully frightening.
Catch-up review #4! I listened to this one on Friday night as I was driving back from Philly after my business trip. It was dark, and I was alone in the car, so of course I'm like "Let's listen to some Lovecraft! :D"I have this weird thing about Lovecraft, though. I love the IDEA of Lovecraft's horror more than I like the reality of it. I just find the writing tedious at times. It's true. I said it. He was wordy. He'd use 4 words when one would do, and for me, that just bogs things down and distracts me and takes me out of the story. I want the meat and bones. I want to be terrified by the story, not bored by the overabundance of words used to convey it. But I will say that it's better on audio. I can just sit back and listen and not get aggravated by the wordiness. And this audiobook, read by Jim Donaldson and (I think) put out by Trout Lake Media, was a pretty good one to listen to because it used sound effects to set the tone and build the tension. Maybe the sound effects were a little distracting at times when they are louder than the reader, or in between sections where there's a loud building screech noise (typical in horror movies), but they do serve the purpose they were intended for. The creaking was particularly effective, and I liked it quite a lot. I did enjoy the story here too, but think that I would likely have enjoyed it a bit more if it was a little bit more streamlined. But I liked the format, meeting the investigator who is clearly disturbed by the events he's witnessed at Red Hook, and then learning about those events. I thought it was a creepy little story and maybe there's hope yet for Lovecraft and I! ;)
I will do a full review. I liked this story and understand that it is a an old short horror story. I did enjoy it tho and loved the narrator Jim Donaldson - I think his voice was perfect for this.
This novel is racist to a certain extent, but somehow its good."...and Malone could not help recalling that Kurdistan is the land of the Yezidis, last survivors of the Persian devil-worshippers." What ?!"Suddenly the leader of the visiting mariners, an Arab with a hatefully negroid mouth, pulled forth a dirty, crumpled paper and handed it to the captain" Double What?!The language is amazing  “In case of sudden or unexplained accident or death on my part, please deliver me or my body unquestioningly into the hands of the bearer and his associates. Everything, for me, and perhaps for you, depends on absolute compliance. Explanations can come later—do not fail me now.ROBERT SUYDAM.”
H. P. Lovecraft was a product of his time and unfortunately his time, the early 1900's were rife with racism and hatred of the unknown. I see a lot of comments that shred this story as a racist diatribe. That can also be said of a lot of the literature from that period. This comment is in no way trying to make light of the racism that is found here in this story, it's just trying to put it into a sort of perspective. Yes, H. P. Lovecraft was a racist. He was a loner brought up by a doting mother, he never socialized except through letters and the occasional visits from other authors. He was certainly, from what I've seen, anti-social. If there had been an attempt by others to school him, I doubt he'd have taken the advice.That said, the man could write nightmare fiction. I wouldn't classify it as horror, per se. He wrote of monsters, but they were monsters of the psyche. He rarely described them, except as other-worldly and most of those who did see these monsters were driven insane or died outright from fear. So, I call it nightmare fiction. His stories do stay with you long after you close the book.
This one exhibits all the same problems as much of Lovecraft's other works, with some particularly egregious racism on display. However, the descriptions of the rituals are pretty good. I keep hovering around a two and a half stars. I think I'm getting a bit of Lovecraft fatigue, and need to set the complete works aside for a bit.
1.5/5Vocabulary-obsessed, word-happy word-splurge. Terrible. Unfocused. Thank god it was only a short story. Verbose and tedious; I like the idea of Lovecraft's work more than I enjoy reading it. Maybe these are tales better HEARD, as in: cd books or audio versions. We'll see.1.5/5MH
Ugh, sound effects, DNF
It doesn't seem to be too popular of an opinion, but I actually really like this story. I get all the darker subtext and understand why people hate it. I'm not going to defend it or claim that Lovecraft was a product of his age and should get a pass for his xenophobia. Racism sucks, and it's too bad that it's such an impetus for Lovecraft's work. That being said, the underlying story itself I found extremely entertaining. Weird occult practices, child abductions, strange supernatural rituals...that stuff is fun.
The Horror at Red Hook by H.P. Lovecraft is an audio book I requested and the review is voluntary. I did like the story, not as much as I did when I was a teen. I am sure this was terrifying in the late 1920's when it was first published. It was creepy now, I can't imagine then when they weren't shown realistic horror movies and shows daily like we are. I thought the narration was very good and added to the story. I forgot to add that in to my initial rating so I will add that now since this is a rating for the overall book. It is funny how the tastes change as you grown older. As a teen I craved all things Lovecraft, maybe that is why I am so warped! LOL
Love it! I love the showing that goes on in this one!I also love that the setting, Red Hook, is a place where Lovecraft lived for a time and hated. He regretted ever moving there and it seems like he put his emotions into crafting this horror story.For those who haven't read The Horror at Red Hook before, I won't bother summarizing as you can read the synopsis yourself, but I wouldn't suggest it. Just dive into this one. It's not that long and it's really good. Lovecraft's use of language is esoteric at times and that might ward off some readers. Understandable. You read enough words you don't understand and you lose the thread of the story. Work through it. The pay off is worth it!
This looks to me like something Trump's parents would read to him on a regular basis as a bedtime story. Be it true, it would explain a lot.This was weak, weak and terrible in so many ways and not scary at all. Unless you're 7 y.o. (the age of little Donald when he heard this story for the first time). Throwing immigrants, devil worshiping, tribal magic and New York architecture into one melting pot gave an effect that makes the reader cringe. Not to mention other absurd ideas the reader is supposed to accept and clap along. An embarrassing pile of racist xenophobic bullshit.P.S. Is Lilith = Sonia?
H.P. Lovecraft's influence on horror/weird fiction is undeniable. He had an amazing imagination. Too bad, because he was an absolutely awful writer and and an even worse human being. I would call this story racist shit, but that seems somewhat unfair to feces.
This is one of the most disgustingly racist, bigoted, pieces of shit that I have read all year. The writing is a god-awful catastrophe of "smart" words that are used to veil the grossly offensive discrimination and disrespect that is shown towards people of color, poverty, and varying religious backgrounds. I sincerely hope the rest of Lovecraft's work isn't this type of ridiculousness because if it is, then I have no idea how someone like him could be so idolized in the literary world. Unacceptable.
Excellent listen - a classical Schnitzler novel!
Would give ten stars for sheer enjoyment. So delightful. Laughed LOUDLY out loud several times, something I rarely do. Just such beautiful beautiful words in such delightful stories. "Lord Emsworth and the Girl Friend" and "Crime Wave at Blandings" some of the finest Wodehouse (or any). --"Lord Emsworth could conceive of no way in which Freddie could be of value to a dog-biscuit firm, except possibly as a taster; but he refrained from damping the other's enthusiasm by saying so." (The Custody of the Pumpkin)--"He bent to where the animal lay on the hearth-rug, and prodded it civilly in the lower ribs. Bottles waved a long tail in brief acknowledgement. He was a fine dog, though of uncertain breed. His mother had been a popular local belle with a good deal of sex-appeal, and the question of his paternity was one that would have set a Genealogical College pursing its lips perplexedly. (The Go-Getter)--
One of the great temptations of life is to take oneself too seriously. Spicing your reading list with some of Wodehouse’s works will do wonders for your inflated ego. Often unfairly accused of being too frivolous, Wodehouse is quite a serious writer. By cutting the legs out from under the pretension and self-aggrandizement of his curious characters, he allows us to laugh at ourselves through their larger-than-life foibles. As a writer, I can’t help but to revel in his masterful use of the English language; very few others have attained the level of precision in description that his works overflow with.
Classic Wodehouse, always a pleasure. I especially love the story in which everybody, including Lady Constance, takes a pop at everybody else with an airgun. A comfort read to make the world seem brighter and more friendly.
Fantastic as always, with a particularly good introduction - more of a tribute to Wodehouse's entire literary career.
Less well known than Wodehouse's Jeeves & Wooster stories, but just as funny!
Masterly..
Right ho! A jolly good read.
The best book you can get on the history and symbolic function of perspective in Western Art
Impressive footnotes + textual values
my art hum professor was SOOOO smart and made me love everything we so much as touched in that class
This book is a classic. It includes the sayings and acts of the early Hasidim. Scholars refer to it when they speak about the Hasidim. Buber's collection of tales is a joy to read and prompt us to think. For example: "Before his death, Rabbi Zusya said 'In the coming world, they will not ask me: 'Why were you not Moses?' They will ask me: 'Why were you not Zusya.'" Also, "Rabbi Uri said: 'David could compose the psalms, and what can I do? I can recite the psalms.'"
One of my New Year's resolutions was to finally finish this book in 2016. Tales of the Hasidim is Martin Buber's fastidious compilation of oral tradition about every Hasidic master he could find that lived in Eastern Europe during the 18th century. It me took so long because it's written kind of like an encyclopedia, with 700 pages of one-paragraph stories. Given that I am not terribly familiar with Eastern European names and places (many of which don't even exist anymore because they were totally destroyed in the Holocaust or the pogroms before that), I even had to check sometimes to see if proper names were people, places, or organizations. The stories themselves are full of wisdom, as one would expect from a bunch of teachers, and I am glad I made the effort to finish them. I also did learn a lot about all the destroyed towns and villages in Poland, for example, and the irony and sadness there was not lost on me, given where I currently live. All in all, even if it did take ten years to make it all the way through, I'm glad I read this. #nevergiveup #endofanera
A Master Scholar this work shares the exuberant and joyous celebration of the Hasidim expression of Judiasm. I learned a great deal I did not know about what lies or did lie at the core of this amazing group. Buber points out that personal celebration of the divine need not be dogmatic or follow "the norm."With people breaking into dance or song during worship... You may discover powerful and amazing Hebrew words like "Hitlahavut" or the burning ecstasy of God..Rich spiritual fare that anyone can appreciate!
Fascinating, challenging, delightful and profound stories told by the great lovers of G-d, collected by Buber, who himself qualifies as an embodiment of Chesed (lovingkindness) or a Hasid. I am never finished with this book. And it reappears in some very good company. Noteably, in "The Spirituality of Imperfection, Storytelling and the Search for Meaning, by Ernest Kurtz and Katherine Ketcham
I first read Buber's tales for a seminary course and and have returned to this book often over the years. It was an important part of my book, God in Our Relationships: Spirituality between People from the Teachings of Martin Buber. Some of the tales are a challnege to understand, but a good number are gems.
Lots of stories about the founding rabbis of Chassidim. Some as short as a few sentences, the longest are perhaps a page, well over 1,000 in total. Somewhat similar to the P'rkei Avot. Some leave more of an imprint than others. Some make you laugh (yes, there is humor in their anecdotes), others make you think.
couldn't actually finish it
The fourth (and next-to-last) collection of Father Brown short stories includes 10 of them with the first and last ones serving as framing for the rest of them. So during a friendly gathering (which strongly reminded me of a modern BBQ party by the way) one man persuaded Father Brown to reveal his secret of being a good detective - thus the title. The following eight stories serve as examples of the said detection and the priest's method. The last one contains a conclusion of the idea in the beginning - completely unsurprising for those who read the first two books I might add. Sufficient to mention it deals with redemption. In my review of the previous book I complained that Father Brown always turned out to be much less superstitious than atheists around him.To my relief this time Chesterton let the theme of feeble-minded atheists go and as a result this book is an easier read. The lightheartedness of the first book is gone forever sadly. One more difference with book 3: that one had Father Brown investigating murders exclusively. This time his cases also include thefts. Coming back to the recurring theme of redemption I find it is much easier to see (and believe in) the redemption of thieves than murderers for the simple reason that to make up for a theft it is fully sufficient to put the stoles goods back. I have much harder time accepting the redemption of people who commit irreversible acts, like taking a life. In this sense Father Brown I am not. One of the (minor) secrets of Father Brown is his knowledge of human nature. As such while most of the secondary characters were typical and even stereotypical several times I was stunned by real depth in some of them: I know similar people in real life.As you can guess I like this collection slightly more than the previous one - just slightly. I rated the previous one with 4 stars, so to nobody's surprise I gave the same rating to this book.
Picked this up at a railway station on the way home from the NSTB Awards... just looking for something to take me home to Cornwall. But what a little gem. Dated, certainly, but such clever little mysteries. My first Father Brown, but not my last.
G.K. Chesterton’s tales of his humble little priest with “a harmless hobby of murder and robbery” continue to be a gentle joy. They certainly lack danger and suspense, and are probably best viewed from a kind of academic armchair detective’s perspective. There is no Sherlock Holmes adrenalin of charging out with the game afoot, but instead a sitting back and allowing a quiet and simple man to explain just what the game was and how it worked. I don’t know how far the BBC show ‘Jonathan Creek’ has travelled around the world, but a number of these tales may almost have served as an inspiration for it. They share almost impossible mysteries which can only be solved in the most convoluted and unguessable manner by a man who looks at things differently to others, combined with a gentle view of Englishness and a caustic wit. David Renwick and Alan Davis often manage to squeeze more danger out of their work, but Chesterton’s sense of humour and keen intelligence is on display throughout and make these tales an always quietly enjoyable pleasure.
I have a "Meh" feeling toward those stories.
enjoying these clever mysteries...
"You may think a crime horrible because you could never commit it. I think it horrible because I could commit it." The words of the immortal Father Brown, of course. Nicely summing up what this is all about. You find it in the best and shortest story of this collection "The Secret of Flambeau". If I were not already a Catholic, I would certainly become one, after reading Chesterton. And I am not too far away from wanting to believe in God as well. - There you are, that was, I hope in the Chestertonian spirit.Seriously, I love everything Chesterton writes, although it is not always fun reading. Sometimes he is celebrating his love for paradox just a little bit too much. But how I love to find little nuggets like this: "I don’t care for spiritual powers much myself. I’ve got much more sympathy with spiritual weakness."
These stories are fine, but they are not memorable. In the final story when Father Brown summed up the various plots, I had trouble remembering which story was which. I will read the final book and two additional stories because I already have them, but I was disappointed in trying to find out more about the characters in the TV show.
Always love Father Brown. Enjoyed these stories.
I am not usually a reader of crime fiction, but I like G.K. Chesterton and thought I’d give Father Brown a try. I loved this collection of stories and especially enjoyed that each is really a philosophical or theological discussion. But if you are not into philosophy don’t be scared off: These stories are beautifully written, witty, exquisitely plotted, and populated with intriguing characters.One of Chesterton’s principal philosophical propositions is that while strict materialism is bound by its own definition to rule out all things supernatural, the supernatural is free to include scientific method in its worldview. The quiet unassuming Father Brown, with his combination of sharp observation and incisive knowledge of human depravity, is the fictional personification of this idea, his answer to Sherlock Holmes. I wondered if Father Brown might be a Chesterton alter ego, but Wikipedia says the character is based on someone else – a priest named Father John O’Connor (1870-1952) who was involved in Chesterton’s 1922 conversion to Catholicism. Father Brown appears in 51 short stories including the eight included in The Secret of Father Brown. These eight stories each illustrate a philosophical point or insight about human nature and are framed by two chapters, beginning with “The Secret of Father Brown” and ending with “The Secret of Flambeau.” Flambeau, a reformed criminal and Father Brown’s long-time friend, has married and settled down on an estate in Spain, and Father Brown has just arrived for a visit. An American neighbor stops by, and having heard of Father Brown’s uncanny ability to solve murder cases, asks him about his secret to solving murder mysteries. Father Brown reveals his secret without hesitation:“You see, I had murdered them all myself….I had planned out each of the crimes very carefully. I had thought out exactly how a think like that could be done, and in what state of mind a man could really do it. And when I was quite sure felt exactly like the murderer himself, of course I knew who he was.”To loosely illustrate the point, the next eight stories each reveal a different situation in which Father Brown had the opportunity to apply his method. I suppose most crime stories must reveal something about human nature, but this book goes a little deeper, deliberately blurring the line between “the criminal” and the rest of us. To Father Brown, all people have the capacity to be both a murderer and a saint and committing a murder does not necessarily mean a person has reached the lowest point of depravity. His harshest judgment is reserved for people who set themselves up as superior beings with the right to classify other people with labels such as “criminal.”Father Brown believes in the possibility of redemption for all who realize they are in need of it. In “The Man with Two Beards” for example, he is confessor and friend to one such reformed criminal who he believes has become a saint. Though he may have compassion for criminals he is not soft on crime; however his harshest judgment is reserved for comfortable hypocrites and crass materialists, not all of whom commit crimes in the legal sense.In the final chapter the American neighbor raises several interesting objections to Father Brown’s method. For example he wonders if might damage one’s moral character by causing you to identify with evil. Father Brown’s view is that his method of “becoming the criminal” functions as a spiritual exercise because it facilitates the recognition of the truth: that we are all capable of evil and in need of redemption. In the end, the American must make his own moral choice when Flambeau, who he knows only as a respectable family man and by another name, reveals his own secret.I will definitely now want to read all of the other Father Brown stories.
Have you wondered how the great detectives solved their cases? In The Secret of Father Brown, while visiting Flambeau's house Father Brown meets a curious American who has to know as some of his countrymen think Father Brown is using mystical powers. Father Brown offers his explanation: "You see, I had murdered them all myself," explained Father Brown patiently. "So, of course, I knew how it was done." Grandison Chace had risen to his great height like a man lifted to the ceiling by a sort of slow explosion. Staring down at the other he repeated his incredulous question. "I had planned out each of the crimes very carefully," went on Father Brown, "I had thought out exactly how a thing like that could be done, and in what style or state of mind a man could really do it. And when I was quite sure that I felt exactly like the murderer myself, of course I knew who he was."Even after further explanation, the American still doesn't quite get it, so Father Brown introduces the stories as case studies in his method.The eight mysteries that followed are asolid group. While, I don't think the cases rise to the level of the brilliance of the Incredulity of Father Brown, there's not a bad story in the lot. Probably the weakest stories in the volume are The Song of the Flying Fish and The Red Moon of Meru and that's only because they seem similar similar to other attempted theft stories in other volumes.Three of the cases were chosen for adaptation in the 1970s Father Brown TV series and are probably the best cases in the book:"The Mirror of the Magistrate" finds Father Brown insisting that a revolutionary poet is innocent of murdering a judge. Father Brown's ability to see the events from the poet's perspective helps him avoid the assumptions the police fall into."The Man with Two Beards" finds police searching for a famous jewel thief who has emerged to rob again. He's apparently killed while committing another robbery, but is that what really happened? Father Brown probably faces one of his most clever and surprising adversaries in this case."The Actor and the Alibi" tells the story of a theatre owner being murdered where everyone seems to have an alibi. This is a case where nothing is what it seems and Father Brown has to see through a clever rouse.In addition to this there are a couple other noteworthy stories: "The Vanishing of the Vaudrey" is perhaps the darkest Father Brown tale I've read yet, while "The Chief Mourner of Marne" is one of the more profound. A man has secluded himself and is in mourning. Rumor has it that Catholic monks have forced him to do it due to a duel he fought with his brother. Father Brown seeks to uncover the truth and clear the Church of scurrilousness charges. Along the way, the story provides enormous food for thought on forgiveness.Overall, this is a great collection with eight mysteries that will appeal strongly to any Father Brown fan and also showcases some interesting developments and growth in Chesterton's philosophy.
I love that this is the whole basis of Father Brown's work:You don't realize how good you are and never will until you face just how bad you can be.The religious exercise that solves crime.
After reading any book of Chesterton, I get the same feeling "It was the best book I've ever read", and this is because you will always learn from them. I like to invest time in reading, but only if that time will become knowledge, wisdom, insights... Chesterton makes that possible. The best part of it, is that his writing is witty and whimsy thus you learn by being perfectly entertained.This book is very strong from a philosophical point of view, this is because the main theme is the fact that any person can do bad things, but that doesn't necessarily makes him or her a bad person.
Fourth in the series of the Father Brown collections, we learn how Father Brown solves his cases. In an introductory and concluding chapter, our protagonist explains how he puts himself in the mind ofthe suspect and tries to think like him or her to see if that person would have motive or reason to commit the crime.The eight short stories between are then conventional mysteries as found in the previous Father Brown anthologies. As always, the prose of chesterton is one of life's great pleasures.
Gave me enormous imagination! Belyaev is truly genius... I didn't think about brain massages before, i consider it's real. Maybe Belyaev have already achieved that , but who knows??
Cabell is a bit of an acquired taste but once you get used to the scent and flavor you want to keep coming back. Imagine Mark Twain writing fantasy and you are close to the idea. Cabell's oeuvre was the saga of Dom Manuel who's mother on her death bed him to "make a figure of himself in the world." The idiot strove to do just that, out of clay, bronze, sand, and glass; you get the idea. His picaresque adventures and conquests lead him to become legendary, saintly, messianic, despite being ugly, crippled, a letch, and not very bright. Through uncanny good luck he departs this mortal coil a veritable god. That's all in Figures of Earth. In The Silver Stallion and 22 odd novels, stories, and poems Cabell tells of the world that the fool begets.Stallion is the second novel in the "series" and tells the story of the breakup of Manuel's Fellowship of the Silver Stallion, sort of Cabell's Knights of the Round Table with Dom as the departed Arthur.Ribald, witty, smart, dirty, blasphemous, and deliciously wordy the fate of the Fellowship as they go their separate ways is told in ten delicious "books" of mock gospel. Full of euphemism, double entendres, the prose is just a delight.This is the third Cabell I've read and I can't recommend it highly enough.
Originally published on my blog here in May 2003.Many readers of fantasy today basically assume that it is a genre which originated with J.R.R. Tolkien; this is not at all the case, and the best of the earlier writing is, in my opinion, well worth resurrecting. James Branch Cabell is today almost completely unknown, even with the occasional cheap reprint in some "fantasy classics" series, and he has a charm and humour almost totally lacking in most post-Tolkien fantasy. In the second half of the twenties, he wrote a loosely connected trilogy set in the kingdom of Poictesme, of which this is the second. It was attacked at the time as blasphemous and indecent, two charges which would hardly be made today even though it is still just about possible to understand why people reacted in this way.The Silver Stallion is the best of the volumes in the trilogy. Figures of Earth lacks the ingredients which mark out The Silver Stallion from just about every other fantasy novels, and Jurgen sometimes reads as though Cabell is trying too hard to shock the reader. The reason this novel is different is that it is about what happens after the end of the quest, during the living "happily every after". It starts with the death of Dom Manuel, central character (if not exactly hero) of Figures of Earth. The fellowship of nine companions who fought under the banner of the Silver Stallion ("rampant in every member") is disbanded, and his widow sets about turning his reputation as the liberator of Poictesme into that of a national saviour and redeemer, sort of a cross between Christ and King Arthur. (It is Cabell's appropriation of Christian ideas and even Biblical quotations to his manifestly false redeemer and particular what is said about the survival of any religion in Part IX which provoked the charge of blasphemy.) The Silver Stallion is about both how the cult of Dom Manuel becomes established and the ageing of his former companions. These nine men find it hard to fit in with the changes in Poictesme, partly because they remember better than anyone else what Dom Manuel was really like, and partly because they miss the old days of fighting and wenching.The them of the ageing heroes makes The Silver Stallion pretty unusual in the fantasy genre, even today. (In this era of debunked heroes, fantasy has generally continued to depict the old fashioned superhuman goodies.) The closest parallels I can think of are the world weariness of some of Michael Moorcock's heroes, the character of the aged Bilbo in TThe Lord of the Rings and Cohen the Barbarian, who has a minor role in several of the Discworld novels. Reading the novel reveals, however, that stylistically Cabell is not like these authors stylistically, reminding me instead of L. Sprague de Camp and Tom Holt. It is a pity that Cabell is not still widely known, and this trilogy at least is well worth seeking out.
I am currently reading this book. It makes me laugh out loud but also puts me to sleep. Frank C. Pape's illustrations are fascinating.
4 stars because I didnt have that WOW in the end. I mean I kinda got it myself, who the bad man was, two or three chapters before it was revealed. Still, a solid british-style mystery thriller. Wallace pace is rapid, you get quite involved in the story. I have to say, i expected more of a murder mystery, i was reading thinking how is going to be murdered, then i got a bit frustrated, because nobody got murdered. Was more of a thriller thing. Still great and recomforting reading. Cant wait to my next Wallace (ein Schriftsteller für Zwischendurch)
Edgar Wallace certainly has a fine mind for thinking up skulduggery and clever ways for people to defraud each other. Throw in some legends involving ghosts and lost gold, and you've got quite a story. So, we have Harry Alford, Earl of Chelford who lives in Fossaway Manor, where his family has lived for centuries. There used to be an Abbey on the grounds as well, and there's a legend that a "black abbot" haunts the place. People within the manor, i.e. servants, and the rubes in the environs begin to tell tales of seeing, once again, a "black abbot" stalking the grounds. Who or what is he? What is his purpose? Certainly something isn't quite kosher. Harry is obsessed with an old legend about buried gold in the manor and is determined to find it. He is much more interested in finding the gold than in spending time with his finacée Leslie Gine. Then we have the "second son", Richard Alford or Dick, who actually runs the estates for his older brother. He is also clearly in love with Leslie Gine and she with him. Leslie's brother, Arthur Gine, has been handling family finances for quite some time and has managed to embezzle and fritter away not only Lord Chelford's money (or maybe just his mother's money), but Leslie's considerable fortune as well. He has a serious gambling problem. His trusted advisor, Fabrian Gilder, also fancies Leslie, and appears to be more involved in his employer's financial tribulations than one might first imagine. Toss in Mary Wenner, who used to be Lord Chelford's private secretary, and who was heavily involved with the research related to finding all the buried gold. She set her cap toward Lord Chelford, and Dick manages to save his brother from such an entanglement and has her dismissed. But she figures she can sell what she knows about the hidden gold to Arthur Gine in exchange for his promise to marry her, and barring that, Fabrian Gilder will do. It seems that she just wants to be married, despite repeatedly disavowing this desire: "I should no more think of throwing myself at his head than I should of flying to the moon".So anyway, there's lots interesting and colorful characters and lots of opportunities for skull duggery, murder, lurking around in the shadows and so forth. All in all an engaging tale. I'm becoming rather fond of Edgar Wallace.
I hadn't heard of it before picking up an old edition of it at a thrift store, but I started reading it and ended up finishing it in less than a week (which is saying a lot for me, because it's rare I actually have time to read). The writing style was engaging, the content was pretty sound (although I guessed who the antagonist was pretty quick), the characters were well-developed, and even with some of it's incredibly predictable moments and situations, I was still surprised by the ending. I'd recommend this book to anyone interested in classic old novels, in treasure hunting, in english/gothic architecture, or in a tale of intrigue and adventure (as it can best be described as so).
Excellent Edgar Wallace mystery. Hidden treasure (with admittedly a blatantly obvious clue), a mysterious ghostly monk and lots of intrigue. Not really a crime novel although there is a murder, this is a rip roaring old fashioned thriller. Wallace at his best.
This was my first Edgar Wallace book, and I will certainly be looking for more.For some reason as I read this book I kept likening it to radio serials. It has many of the same qualities: it has over fifty short chapters, a determined hero, a brave heroine, continuous cliffhangers and surprises. As I only read a short few pages every day it really did take on that sort of quality. The plot is set in Chelfordbury, where the current Earl is obsessed with a hidden treasure and the macabre Black Abbot, said to be roaming the grounds of the main house and the nearby ruined abbey. From this a series of frightening events begin and snowball into death and danger. Wallace's strengths are apparent in his writing style (the characters are not stupid and are thankfully plain spoken), his pacing (things move quickly, particularly in the last third of the book) and his setting of the scene (very detailed, including a seamless use of flashback chapters). At first so many of the characters seem unscrupulous - and some of them are - but by the time the story reaches its end nearly all of them show new depths. In my view the best books have characters that display many facets (such as in the world outside of books).I won't say I didn't have the answers to the mystery deduced early on; it became obvious halfway through, but I didn't care...there were more twists and turns to come, and I wanted to see the characters through to the end. I have no problem seeing why Edgar Wallace was such a popular author in his day.
Excellent mystery; kidnapping, etc.
Alexandra Kollontai had the misfortune of fighting the good fight in the wrong country. This short volume, which includes her autobiography, her essay “New Woman”, and an informative afterword, leaves one not terribly impressed about her literary merits and much more eager to read a proper biography. And as luck would have it, Haymarket Books will be publishing in 2014 a revised edition of Cathy Porter’s biography, Alexandra Kollontai: A Biography, which will be the volume I am recommending today. Meanwhile, many of her writings, including the two pieces included in this volume, are available (free!!) at marxists.org :: http://www.marxists.org/archive/kollo... The essay “New Woman” may be of interest to those interested it in the ‘strong female character’ question and to those interested in unEARTH’ing early 20th century literature. But reading it was a terribly dull experience.
Kollontai has been on the verge of being a hero of mine for a while. She was a very active Bolshevik in the period leading up to the Russian Revolution, and she appears to have lived her Marxism in remarkable ways - like pointing out that the domestic servitude of women in marriage can be seen as akin to the oppression of the proletariat and that the place of women ought to be as much a concern as the conditions of factory workers. And being sexually emancipated - not having to rely on marriage for either sexual fulfilment or protection - did bring her some condemnation at the time. But I like the way she discusses it here: she had liaisons but they kept getting in the way of her work!Anyway, this is an autobiography, written in the late 1920s, when she had been sent out of the country by Stalin... to be ambassador to Norway. As, I think, the very first woman to be received with full diplomatic honours. Not a bad way to get rid of a political opponent. So clearly what she says has a political agenda, but the fact remains that as far as I can tell, she was the first woman to be appointed to a cabinet - Lenin made her Commissar for Social Welfare (I think that's the title; it's the stereotypical role you'd give a woman in the Cabinet, but still, she's THERE and she made use of it and she had long been agitating for the sort of reforms she attempted, so it seems she may have wanted it anyway).It's a quick read and definitely worth it for people who are interested in the period and the manifestations of early feminism: I read it here: .
Dear goodreads, thank you for randomly not saving my review. I hate you. Again, briefly--the best thing about this book is the title. It is pseudo-scientific when it doesn't need to be and the prose is flat and bereft of humor. Kollontai was an orthadox communist that participated in the Russian revolution and was a diplomat for the Soviet state. This book recounts her activities though it is told in a way that lacks excitment. It also includes her long essay on the "new woman." This essay basically just lays out her own personal preferences in terms of relationships and extrapolates them to everyone. The one thing I did like was seeing the revisions to the text after the Soviet censors had read the manuscript. This gives some idea about what it might have been like to publish a book in the Soviet society. The revisions are pretty extensive and sometimes seem to have as much to do with style as substance. Though this was intersting, it's not really enough to justify picking this book up
Brave & sad.
A travel memoir, obviously. India takes up half the book, the other places the last half in rapid succession. No matter – the charm of the book is Huxley's superbly balanced, thoughtful insights on everything from the caste system to Christian persecution in history, from how practical matters shape the seriousness of sin to Hollywood pabulum to cultural differences in music appreciation.A truly learned and reasonable man, Huxley is at turns inspiring, funny, admiring and scathing. His description of India is dead-on, and it exquisitely captures that mixture of pity, contempt, understanding and reverence that the open minded Westerner comes to feel for Indian life. The book is a wholly admirable exercise in the broadening of an already open mind.
I read this book as a child from my grandfathers collection. A fantastic account of the authors travels in the sub-continent. Funny and insightful, it will keep you engrossed through out. Oddly, theres not much in the way of description of food while in India, though a description of a particularly large and satisfying meal is present in the Burma section.I recently spent a month travelling in Rajasthan, and read the chapters pertaining to those areas while there and was surprised to see that many of his observations still hold true. ( Bikaner and his views on some of the palaces ). Anyone visiting Mumbai will agree with his observation of the crows.Aldous Huxley has surprisingly modern views for a book written in 1914, as an Indian reading it, I found I agreed with him on nearly everything, including his views on the Taj Mahal. ( I may be in the minority there ).
I just saw the movie Christopher Robin, and I'm not exactly sure why but it was a hug for my soul. I'd never read the original Pooh stories before. Turns out they are just delightful and full of quiet, humorous turns of phrase.
These stories are absolutely charming. I think I enjoyed them more than my kids. My boys enjoyed the stories, and I enjoyed the wit. Genuinely a must read.
Well. I picked this up quite a while ago on bargain at Waldenbooks, and was particularly happy because it didn't even have a remainder mark.Then recently, I started reading it aloud (to our baby-to-be). I don't know WHY on earth they would do it this way, but the stories are not just a random jumble of selections from Winnie-the-Pooh and The House at Pooh Corner, they are all out of order! One story talks about Pooh getting stuck in Rabbit's front door, and that story doesn't come up until 2/3 through the book. Tigger, Kanga and Roo make appearances in many of the stories in the first half, but the last two stories in the collection are the introduction stories for Kanga and Roo, and Tigger. It's just ridiculous! Why would you do that, editor?!?!The illustrations are beautiful and in full color, but the stories themselves were also just a "meh" for me. There are some cute ones but part of the humor is supposed to be that Pooh and Piglet and company are rather know-it-all and selfish. I didn't think that was all that entertaining. Honestly, I think I prefer watching the Disneyfied cartoon versions from the '60s because they had cute songs and chose really great voices for the characters. I never thought I would say that, but there you are.
How can I express my love for these wonderful tales? I can only say that every child should be blessed by their presence in their lives. Read them to your children and cure them of many heart aches. I still listen to these stories and believe I always shall. Peter Denis reads them aloud and in that audio version there is an introduction written by Christopher Robin himself (in which he recommends listening to Peter read them).If your children are going to be watching the Disney versions of these immortal tales then they certainly ought to listen or read the originals because there is far more charm and wisdom in them.
5 stars for A.A. Milne but only 3 for the editor. I have never read the "real" Pooh books so I can't quite compare but this is just a collection of stories and they all seemed to be out of order. For instance, we'd read about Kanga and Tigger and then the last few chapters were about how those characters came to the forest. Shouldn't those have been toward the beginning? There were several instances of things being out of order and I was unimpressed. I like that it is nicely bound and I think it will last a long time even with my rough toddlers. Read to Kira.
I don't remember reading this book when I was little, so it was new for me as I read it to my daughter. We both enjoyed it so much more than the "Disney-ized" versions of the stories we've encountered recently. My favorite parts were the little songs Pooh makes up throughout. I also liked that the whole book is a set of stories told to the "real" Christopher Robin by his Mom? Dad? Caregiver? It's not clear who is inventing the stories, but they are imaginative and the language is wonderful.
I loved reading these stories aloud with my son again, now he's a little older. So many giggles at these funny, sweet, loving stories. This particular edition, however, the stories are not in order though, which can be confusing, but as we knew the stories anyway we just enjoyed reading it. It was a sweet nightly read with my boy.
This collection of about 10 books (may be more, may be less, they are now scattered throughout various bookshelves in our house), is simply enchanting. The innocence of Pooh and his companions is a joy to behold, and the stories endure long after the children have progressed out of the nursery. An absolute must for every child's reading list.
This book is all the comfort and love of childhood in one cover. Winnie the Pooh shaped my life from the beginning, and even now, sixteen years later, it touches me to read it. All of the tales of Pooh and Piglet and Christopher Robin are like a window to the past, an insight on the simplicity of childhood.
Moms facing empty nests should really have a whole pack of tissues at their disposal for the last chapter of this book (really two books in one). I felt the whole ebb and flow of childhood pass before my eyes as Christopher Robin went...somewhere. What sorrow that this is the last time I will read these books to my children!
This book is not one to read straight through. Each chapter is a different story. And some of the stories I really did not like. Considered reading this to my son but really did not like the way the stories read. The movie is better in my opinion.
Such adorable stories! My children and I have cozied up for a laugh each evening and played Pooh sticks at every bridge. We have talked about fears and friendships. In short this has been a joyful read aloud book
I love this copy of Milne's stories.
Classic Pooh with classic moments
So imaginative. Really captures a child's world.
Narration stellar!
I read this to my children, but I got as much enjoyment out of it as they did.
wonderful read aloud--actually so smart--you want to read it to older kids to get the full benefit of the fun humor and touching dialogue.
One of my absolute favorites!
Unpopular opinion: Mosquitoes is actually my favorite Faulkner novel. It may not have the same "gravity of human experience" as his other works, but in it we find Faulkner as comedian attempting to explore and express his views on "serious art." And he does a fantastic job. Hugely entertaining and genuinely insightful, it's repeatedly the Faulkner novel I most look forward to reading again and again.
I'm giving this book a five star rating because at first and superficial glance it will make me look smart because I liked a book by Falkner finally. I'm supposed to because I live in New Orleans, right?I don't know if it was a bad book because it took me five months to read as all the characters were so hateful and unbearable to be around for long periods of time or if it was a good book because Faulkner got me engaged enough to want to torture and kill all of the sniveling pieces on that boat.I'm glad it's over. I'm sorry that I'm supposed to like these books, I bring nothing with me from it save this:- philosophers, artists, writers, sculptures and the elite educated need to get day jobs. They are annoying and spoiled otherwise.- it felt like the milk toast answer to the Harlem Renaissance.- I want some milk and toast.
Analyzing Faulkner is a bloated, rubbery thing, and when it gets to the point where the study of an artist becomes an industry (only slightly worse than an author becoming an industry) it's time to step back and just read their goddamn books. I know little about Faulkner and don't really need to to enjoy his works. I've been reading them spottily and out-of-time but decided to hunker down after reading the biggies and read all of them in order. Pleasantly surprised at both "Soldier's Pay" and "Mosquitoes", I don't get the disparaging. "Mosquitoes" is a fine book. It's hilarious and so refreshingly lacking all of these staid old tropes that Faulkner later got bogged down in (whether that's his fault or the academics...never mind, it's the academics), that you feel like it was written after some of his more well-known works. A bunch of kind of shitty and morally ambiguous jerkfaces get together on a boat and eat grapefruit, swat at mosquitoes, try to escape, get drunk, dance, and try to fuck each other. It's kind of like Hitchcock's "Lifeboat" except they're all on MDA and someone spilled a bottle of blood in the bottom of the boat.
A largely overlooked semi-masterpieceThis was one of the easiest and most pleasant books by William Faulkner that I have ever read. It contains the typically unforgettable, i.e. singular Faulknerian characters, is influenced heavily by Joyce's emphasis on sexual themes, and features some of the most devastatingly sardonic humour in it I have ever come across. In parts, it is also rather blatantly misogynistic. The storyline of Mosquitoes centres around a yacht expedition of various artists, cads and fast women that goes wrong but which allows these characters to engage in various forms of debauchery or excess. One big difference between Joyce and Faulkner though is that Faulkner is very subtle in his sexual allusions here and elsewhere. He hints at people possibly getting it on (or off) and I think there was a lesbian scene here too which is very cool for a book written back then.Mosquitoes also contains a large number of quotable observations on life which reminded me at times of Proust's wry commentary on Parisian salon life. This does not rank among his true masterpieces such as Absalom! Absalom! or Light in August or my personal favourite Flags in the Dust just to name a few but it is highly recommended especially for those who have been turned off by Faulkner's more difficult and impenetrable work. I was amazed that the Kindle version cost only $1. A true bargain!
This is my first five star review and I have read some really amazing books! Faulkner sets himself apart via his mastery of language, story telling, dialog, and character development.He never misses a step. About a chapter and a half into the read i thought, "This is why my mother thinks I can't write!" And I am OK with needing to work to aspire to Faulkner.
To be honest, it has been awhile since I've read this book. But I felt the need to put up on my list with the other amazing works of fiction I've read lately. I am a pretty big Faulkner fan, but I grew tired with the similarities between most of his better known books.Mosquitoes is a breath of fresh air after reading Faulkner's other works--not because he isn't an incredible writer, but because it is more Fitzgerald-like than it is Faulkner-like. I vividly recall the characters eating grapefruits for breakfast together, and it is one of the best scenes I've come across in literature. Definitely read this book to expand your understanding of Faulkner.
There are a few really beautiful parts to this book. But mostly I was bored. Because perhaps the only thing more boring than people talking about art is reading about people talking about art. And maybe thats the point. Because the only real artist in the book doesn't talk about it. He just does.
This is a good book. Not Faulkner's best book by a mile. But a good book nonetheless. Some glimpses at the brilliance to come are littered throughout a Felliniesque tale of Bohemians and the idle rich aboard a boat in New Orleans. Characters aside from the two young girls, the old biddy, the older perv, and the sculptor are a bit interchangeable. For the life of me I will not ever remember the difference between Ayers, Fairchild, and "the Semitic Man", but no worries. What you're getting here is Faulkner's demos-the raw nuggets that will flower in the later Yoknapatawpha County series. You'll also get a completely engrossing opening riff (seemingly covering everything from the title bug to Love and Art and the too-fleeting nature of Life Itself, and of course Girls) and a drunken ending right out of a 20s Screwball Comedy-or perhaps a peek into the troubled Faulkner screenplay for The Big Sleep.I'll admit, a lot of it droned by. Like one of those Fellini movies with the wacky characters whose dialogue never quite matches the movement of their lips. But it is worth it for the language, and the scattered scenes of the ridiculousness of taming Nature.
This novel has so much . . . potential. There are beautiful images abounding, and fascinating insights into artistic philosophy. That being said, without much of a plot to hold it together and with a fair dash of prose experiments on Faulkner's part, Mosquitoes is a supremely difficult read. It's almost as if the reader is alternately drowning and then coming up for air each time Faulkner offers a reprieve in the form of one of his more skillful passages (the foray into New Orleans' swamps is replete with gorgeous imagery). My best recommendation would be a purchase of the book and a re-read (and another, and another) in between your other 'to-reads' . . . it seems that this method would net a better appreciation of this early Faulkner.
This is Faulkner's second novel, and like most of his early writing, it is more accessible than some of his later, more experimental and modernist work. The writing here is much more nuanced than in his first novel, Soldier's Pay, and there are strong hints of what is to come in terms of style, but it is an entertaining narrative that reveals incredible talent for characterization and especially description. The story of a boat excursion is also a meditation on the role of art in society and in life, and makes a good read. I recommend it for anyone interested in literary fiction, and especially for those previously frustrated by attempts to read Faulkner.
Though slagged as Faulkner's worse novel by the all knowing academia, I actually found it to be a good read. It was far, far superior to Faulkner's first, Soldier's Pay. This reads much more like Faulkner in his prime. More a novel of ideas than anything else, it introduces us to some of his future favorite words like... "fecund." Sadly, "ratiocination" and "apotheosis" have yet to surface. As Faulkner himself references, this may perhaps be his ode to Balzac. And as another Facebook review noted, this does have the feel of Melville's The Confidence Man, if not in spiraling obfuscation, in its setting.
Drags in places. Not just because of Faulkner's long passages of stream of consciousness...though that is here too. But just because there's not really a story here. Faulkner is working out a lot of how he sees art and its purpose. And how he sees women...less than flatteringly. An interesting early novel. Better than the first one, but it's a big jump from this to The Sound and the Fury, two books later.
Definite improvement over his first novel. The book contained the most humor of any Faulkner novel, which made it strange due to my past experiences with his writing. He starts to dabble with a bit more adventurous writing techniques that would become his halmark later on. All and all a pretty enjoyable read.
A lot better than it gets credit for. Reminiscent of Waugh and early Huxley. There are some brief Joycean moments that don't really work, but that prefigure more successful experimentation in later Faulkner novels. Not as good or ambitious as Sartoris, but far more accomplished and coherent than Soldiers' Pay.
This is the first William Faulkner novel I have read, and I wish to read many more. "Mosquitoes" was slow to start (in my opinion), but as I struggled on - wrapping my brains around the euphemisms the writer employs - I became captivated with the party of characters on this yacht trip he describes. Mrs. Patricia Maurier starts out being this haughty old lady who is overconfident in her observations of art and artists, and she transforms into this crushed old lady who is only just realizing that the people in her life are using her.Ernest Talliaferro was a man who knew women in the sense of knowing how to make them up. I think I recall that somewhere in the book it mentioned his being somewhat of an expert on women's lingerie. Anyway, he discovers that he knows not as much about women as he first thought, but then (like a smug fool) he convinces himself he knows what women want again. He's helped by external forces to believe his fool ideas about the fairer sex. As I read his progress I couldn't help save think that he represents many men. The self-certainty of one's assurance about love and sex is both true and stupid. You get a sense of just how stupid when you read this novel. The women surprise, disturb, and ultimately upset him. What he ends up believing in this novel is what (I assume) a lot of guys end up believing about women. It's that confidence that needs constant maintenance. It's unnatural yet Mr. Talliaferro suspects it'll do the trick. What a fool! He doesn't know what's good for him.Patricia "Pat" Robyn (the niece) is a character who is both your typical bitchy self-appointed goddess and still a young girl who is worth idolizing. The way she runs off with David deserves some praise, even though it turned out to be a failure. What is praiseworthy is her adventurous spirit and uncommon idealism in those fleeting moments of escape. For a few hours, or so, she was more of a man than any of the male characters throughout the novel. She was the idealist with David (who she didn't really ever get to know). She crushed him when she let her pragmatism invade her senses, which is why when they returned to the yacht David soon departed. He left being Fairchild's steward and disappeared from the novel.Now, Dawson Fairchild is one of the great ramblers in the novel. He regales whoever bothers to listen to him with an observation of things, even once, or twice, relaying a memory to deliver a message about something he is attempting to describe. He's really a good talker and he and Julius (aka the Semitic man) have numerous conversation about the certain characters in the novel; about art and artists and what they mean, and about women, attraction, and how to get the lady. These conversations, though, to some may seem misogynistic, I found fun to read.Mr. Gordon didn't speak much throughout the novel. He was one of the representations of an artist. I think of him as an indifferent kind of figure. I mean, he is aloof, and unlike Fairchild and Julius he seems awfully cold. He even seemed that way with Patricia, who he spanked in one scene in the book. He just seemed very detached. At least, Fairchild and Julius would amuse themselves with the possible flaws they suspected they had. Mr. Gordon wouldn't even do that. He seems like a silent character; off to one side somewhere, or in one corner. He's that guy obscured by something who you just feel in your gut is smoking a cigarette. That's the best way I can describe him.Now, Mark Frost is another representation of an artist, and he is a lazy soul. My God, he's LAZY! He spreads out like a cat on the floor. He does it in sight of others. Poets are like cats! He spreads out like he's a starfish (a starfish cat), and there is this one scene, toward the end of the novel, wherein he enters Miss Jameson's apartment (or whatever) and he spreads out (being that cat again), and he's completely oblivious to her wanting to screw with him. She's lowering herself and giving him subtle hints that she'd give her body up, but he doesn't even notice. Too busy licking his paws! My God, he's LAZY!And Dorothy Jameson is really desperate for affection; not really true love. She just wants to be held by a man. She starts off feeling like she'd not waste time on Mark Frost, because she felt like anybody could get him, but toward the end of the novel she lowered herself for him and couldn't get him. Damn! On the boat she tried to attract Pete, but he wasn't having it. Damn! She put herself out there, even asking Pete if she could give him her phone number, but again it be damn, damn, DAMN! She's really one of the least arrogant people on the yacht, and she (I feel) got left in the worst shape by the end of the novel. Goddamn it!Now, Jenny - Jenny, oh, that mysterious girl! Jenny seemed to me to be the second apple of everybody's eye, after Patricia (the niece), and she surely was something fun and cute. She came with Pete onto the yacht, but she spent more time as the call to sex for the older men who made it their mission to court her. Mr. Talliaferro came off first as creep to her, but then came dancing time and dance away with Mr. Talliaferro she was willing to do, and then there was Major Ayers who wanted to get her enjoying his foreign company. Both Mr. Talliaferro and Major Ayers were being toyed with (I suspect) by Jenny, because she liked the attention. Pete wasn't aware all of the time that Jenny (who he came with) was being the great narcotic on-board the yacht.Pete was Jenny's boyfriend, and his attitude on the yacht (for the most part) was bored. He had his hat, which he was very fond of protecting. When it broke (I think I recall) he still wore it, and there was something about him expecting Mrs. Maurier to pay for it considering she stepped on it. When he returned home his older brother wanted him to go deliver some food somewhere. Pete didn't want to. His older brother was angered wondering where he'd been. You get the sense that even though Pete was bored on the yacht he is inwardly infuriated with his normalcy.Now, since I think I have mentioned a little this and little that about all the main characters I shall mention how Faulkner writes himself into "Mosquitoes". Yes, there's a scene in one of the character's memories, and they describe this man named Faulkner and the scene was at a dance or something like that. I can't exactly remember what it was, but there you go; writes self into novel. That was interesting!What stands out, though nowhere in the novel, are mosquitoes. Why the novel is titled "Mosquitoes" may have some readers bewildered, but not me. I may be wrong, but I suspect 'mosquitoes' is a metaphor for the characters on the yacht, and really for human kind. The characters on the yacht are like mosquitoes sucking the joy out of each other; life out of each other. We do that as people, and it is a tad cynical to express it in your writing, but it ought to be expressed as is. The characters on the Nausikaa are all mosquitoes in one way or another.All in all "Mosquitoes" is a great novel. As you progress in the book you will find different styles of delivering the story. There are parts where messy poetry takes place of the accustomed prose, and you're left having to absorb it as it comes with each new page. This novel is not all written in a direct prose, but it's written in whatever delivers the scene best to you. That's something to be admired in this work. It is open for interpretation, and its themes (in my opinion) transcend love and life and death and sex and sorrow.
I loved this book. I often teach that Lean is not implicitly a “Japanese” concept but an American concept that was transferred (and subsequently perfected by) many Japanese companies after WWII. This 1926 version has solidified this if nowhere else, than at least in my mind.Ford’s Assembly Line is often used as an example of one of his most obvious contributions to Lean. Having parts and tools at point of use he was able to increase production while reducing costs. However after reading this book, there was so much more that have lead to the roadmap of today’s Lean Thinking. Respect for People Jidoka (Toyota’s Pillars) are prominently called out in this book, even though Ford doesn’t title them this.In a time where there was no middle class - he showed respect for people. Paying a much higher minimum wage ($5/day) and enacting a 8 hour day he stressed a good work/life balance. Also by paying his employees at such a wage, he created a class of consumers. Ford stresses repeatedly through “Today Tomorrow” that it is possible to pay high wages and reduce cost of product as his people are workers and problem solvers. He definitely was influential thinker who coveted TPM 5s – both major elements to Jidoka. Several points throughout the book He makes reference that: Machines are “seldom down as they are serviced regularly and constantly cleaned”. When taking ownership of a railroad he applied the same methods – neat and orderly and serviced equipment.He took the time to identify several types of WASTE and explained many steps his teams have taken to remove those wastes. Motions, transportation, proper inventory levels, and scrap/rework were all addressed as adding to costs and should be eliminated where possible.There are parts of this book that I didn’t enjoy as much. He talks at points about “educating his employees to spend”. Having read his biography I know Ford actually had set up some “Ford Social Services” where expected and sometimes even enforced his employees to live to a certain standard. Couple other minor sections I didn’t care for but the chapters are short and I muddled through those sections fairly quickly.All in all a very good book that I would recommend to anyone in Continuous Improvement roles also anyone interested in business history.
I like most of the chapters from the book. I got especially taken in by the chapter about the nation's wealth, and the idea behind charities. I do recommend to others to read, review and keep it accessible in their bookshelves. For me, this is a must-read.
Brilliant, though somewhat utopian in outlook. I was somewhat surprised to see that Henry Ford outlined a complete and modern continuous process improvement program back in 1926 -- long before quality circles, total quality management, and lean six sigma. The basic message of the book is that good business management can save the world. Ford cites multiple examples from Ford Motors where better management improved the bottom line and also improved the lives of his workers. The book reads somewhat like an Ayn Rand novel - the producers of the world carry the load for the moochers. Ford does offer ample advice and has a very quotable writing style. The only thing that kept me from giving it five stars was the constant droning about how Ford Motors is the best thing since sliced bread. Otherwise, this is a very good book, maybe a must read, for those interested in continuous process improvement.
This book is the second of 3 books written by Henry Ford. It is written in a similar style to My Life and Work. in Today and Tomorrow, Henry details the measures taken and innovations developed to reduce labor hours in building the Model T. Henry believed that companies exist to provide a service to their customers; in Ford's case, that service was an automobile at the lowest possible cost. It is ironic that in 1926, the year this book was written, the public was rejecting the Model T for more expensive cars with more features. This book is essential for anyone interested in Henry Ford, the Model T, or automotive history. It has a large amount technical description of various manufacturing processes. Highly recommended for those interested in automotive manufacturing, Henry Ford, the Model T, and attitudes toward work and compensation in the mid 1020s.
Brilliant. This book marks Ford as a genius. Taiichi Ohno was the inventor of the Toyota Production System, which was copied during the 1980's by Sony and practically other Japanese and Asian Tiger industrial firm. Henry Ford was Ohno's hero. Taiichi Ohno read and reread Today and Tomorrow (published 1926), for Ford's book was a remarkable blueprint of how Henry Ford was achieving what we call today "Total Quality Management". It was also a road map detailing almost every major feature that showed up in Ohno's "Toyota Production System". Read Ohno's own book "Toyota Production System: Beyond Large-Scale Production" and you will see how much credit Ohno gives to Ford.
Move over Masters and Johnson, an amazingly enlightened book from an amazingly unenlightened era
This incredible book taught me that women experience profuse motions of the bowels while menstruating. I also learned that the colored races are fond of insertion without ejaculation (namely the Japanese). Celery is a major aphrodisiac, but drinking lemonade will drastically decrease your sexual desire. And if you want to learn about the odors of smegma in men and women, I can't think of a better book to read.
Ideal Marriage: Its Physiology and Technique (Hardcover) by Th.H. van de Velde the Kinsey character in the movie "KINSEY Let's talk about sex " reads from the book. Everything he reads is sexual and reproductive nonsense. typical quotes: "The hand should never be used for the purpose of sexual excitation." and "oral contact , while acceptable as a means if stimulation, is pathological if carried through to orgasm and possibly injurious."
I picked this from a pile of free books, based on the title "Ideal Marriage." I didn't really focus on the subtitle, so I was pretty surprised when I started reading.It is interesting, in a way, to read a sex manual from 1926. Turning to a random page (167), one finds the royal physician's advice to the Empress Maria Theresa: "Praeterea censeo, vulvam sacratissimae Majestatis, ante coitum, diutius esse titillandam." Let him hear who hath ears to hear.Let's try it again (p. 280): "Further aids which can at least have no harmful reactions are hot cushions or pillows applied to the lumbar region. And also medicated (carbonic acid) baths." For these and other similar observations we must all acknowledge a debt of gratitude to the learned author.
I think it's great!
I know this book is much loved but it is not my favorite among the Sabatini works. I'd actually give it 2-1/2 stars but rounded it up because ... well ... Sabatini.I liked Bellarion as the naive, classically educated wanderer whose native intelligence leads to an unsuspected ability to solve problems and strategize, especially in statehood and warfare. My problem is that the story ground to a halt because of the numerous battles and sieges recounted. I understand it is based on real history and real people (except for Bellarion) but I feel good storytelling should have been able to communicate a lot of these events without taking me through it blow by blow. It's no Scaramouche or Captain Blood or The Seahawk. However, it is a good story overall and with my battle skimming abilities I enjoyed it.
Whenever anybody talks about Rafael Sabatini's best works, Scaramouche and Captain Blood are often recommended.But Bellarion in my opinion is as good as any of them.Extra star for a hero who uses his brain rather than his brawn, the haughty princess who disdains him till the last minute.Plus the political manoeuvrings and the historical setting.What's not to love?
i have mixed feelings about this book.a long time ago i read scaramouche, another similar book by the same author which i enjoyed. However in I am not sure whether I would like it so much if I reread it. I would still recommend that book over this one (more swashbuckling).What i actually liked about this book: the faux historical setting and references - the atmosphere is quite exciting - this book we have northern italy in 15th century, where men may make their name and fortune in mercenary companies. (and again in scaramouche he chooses french revolution, another time of turbulence where again a talented no-name could establish a name for themself thru social upheaval). The use of contemporary allusions and references, of books Bellarion might have read, fictioanl and real, of real historical figures, makes it quite interesting. I also enjoyed the florid, old-fashioned writing style (bc to be fair, despite the choice of words, he is no thomas hardy and gets to the point). And language is fun, and the author and his characters are witty. Legal, tactical and philsophical musings also fun. Tone makes light of characters, which i enjoy (think jane austen) but i know some of my friends hate.So things i didn't like...You could level a charge of being too good/gifted/handsome etc at the main character. i didn't rly have a problem tho, imo he was flawed.Bice(Beatrice)/Lenore-scaramouche. Are his other books the same? There is this female character who is motivated only by greed. A treacherous, powerhungry, ambitious gold digger type. Basically a tragic heroine. (fyi in this book some allusions were made about beatrice and (view spoiler)[her 2nd husband. Her real life counterpart got horribly tortured and killed by him, probably for being too old. (hide spoiler)]) She is contrasted with the morally pure and rather naive Princess Valeria. Still I'd rather have 2 female characters than one, and they were both pretty interesting.But idk. I kind of agreed with the advice Beatrice was giving her husband and Bellarione. Even if it was motivated by her own self-interest, killing off the duke earlier probably would have saved a lot of people a lot of grief and been for the best.. prudent (for safety) and kind (for the ppl of milan) advice. Also since the story was not presented from Valeria's pov it was hard to sympathise with Valeria's wrongheadedness. I suppose I can see how she would come to those conclusions, but reading it, I just felt exasperated with her. Too stupid.add to this i didn't really care about facino or his loyalties and parts of the story were not too exciting.
Oh fabulous! I do believe that of the various time periods Sabatini writes in, I enjoy his pre-Renaissance Italy the most. Bellarion exemplifies the classic Sabatini hero-- gifted with staggering intelligence matched only by his confidence; a steady composure in the face of every kind of stress; a dark cynicism of the world and men; completed finally with a single, powerful dash of romantic nobility that never ceases to surprise him or those around him. Perhaps the story might seem a little too far-fetched, for a naive, bookish acolyte to transform into one of the richest, ruthless, and overall successful mercenary captains in Italy in the span of a mere 5 years. But Sabatini takes care not to turn Bellarion into a Gary Stu, and Bellarion's anti-hero qualities work overtime to heighten anticipation, as he insults, deceives, and affronts everyone around him in the process of achieving an ultimately selfless goal.The only other flaw I might raise is that the sacrificial love he holds for the Princess Valeria seems rather unjustified, considering the brevity of their first encounters, the distinct difference in intelligence between the two (although, to be fair, no one in the story can match Bellarion in that way), which leads to her persistent condemnation of his every act and word for almost the entire book. But watching Bellarion spin circles around his peers and opponents, squeak his way out of death more than once, and wrestle his way from obscurity into bombastic success is more than worth the suspensions of disbelief required.Sabatini's language is gorgeous and clever, and I didn't mind one bit having to look up words, sometimes four or more in a chapter, because of the richness in understanding a turn of phrase. Definitely a must-read for anyone looking for a little intellectual stimulation with their dashing, adventurous entertainment.
Another epic to the scale of Captain Blood, the Carolinian and Scaramouche in that the protagonist embroils himself into the fate of a major historical event. Sabatini does not forget any of the many major and minor characters have their actions effect the story all the way through. Unfortunately the least likeable is the protagonist; too perfect and unrelatable. The plot was good but the scenes which we are presented with read like many long sessions of jury duty. Too many detailed arguments to justify Bellarion's actions occur. And again the romantic interest has contempt for the main character until the very end. The villains are plentiful and show how hard it is to find one working for good instead of personal gains. This book is an entertaining way to learn about medieval Milanese history. A for the sword fights, they are left for your own imagination the battles are all large scale instead of individually focused.
Now this one of all the Sabatini I've read recently was the most interesting, if a bit of a shocker. I think he may have really pushing his envelop here as he got closer to home history. Oh, he usually skirts around the edge of morality, but without having his protagonist push certain limits. They're always the pirate with a code of honor, forced into the kill, and such. So, when Bellarion killed a man in cold blood just a few short chapters in, with very little compunction, it was a good jolt out of the usual Sabatini framework. The whole book feels that much more fresh, and dare I say Italian thanks to the departure. Add in that Bellarion is on the edge of physical cowardice (although not one, of course), and you've got a hero (but never anti-hero) that stands out from the rest. Of course, it may be the constant diet of Sabatini novels that's making this break more interesting to me; I'd be interested to know what it feels like with less Sabatini exposure.
Gorgeously written! The beginning was a little slow but defiantly gets interesting and complicated soon. It is not a blow through kind of book and even though I have a wide vocabulary I try to have a dictionary nearby. Also, Sabatini assumes the reader knows Latin – I don’t but I am starting to learn.
Probably my favorite book by my favorite author. Sabatini is the master of the historical fiction, and this is a nicely woven tale that includes all kinds of great themes: coming of age, love, fighting, misunderstandings, early 15th Century Italy, etc. A real treat to read and re-read (if you're a big fat sap like me).
Classic Sabatini at his best. Bellarion rivals Scaramouche as my favorite. The master of historical adventure fiction who gives Dumas his greatest challenge. Eloquent, philosophical, witty, riveting. Brilliant.
Pure enjoyment. That warm feeling of satisfaction that only Sabatini creates. Adventure writing at its finest!
Wonderful historical fiction of the swashbuckling adventure type!
This might be my favorite book of all time...
Actually, I didn't finish the book; I did not find it appealing at all, even though I had totally enjoyed Scaramouche by the same author.
My favorite Sabatini novel....have red it at least 5 times over the years.....and went to the trouble of finding myself a copy from Abe Books....
Having loved this book as an adolescent, I returned to it for a weekend binge-read with mingled eagerness and trepidation. For me, at least, it held up well. The prose is ornate, and arguably over-colored, but undeniably skillful. And honestly, if you're reading a novel about a peasant boy orphaned by Italy's medieval civil wars and educated in a convent who accidentally becomes a Ghibelline spy... are you really going to object to prose that's ornate almost to a fault? You shouldn't, is my contention. The rich description of architecture and fabrics, indeed, makes it an interesting candidate for teaching in a course on historical fiction. I feel it's worth noting that the ugly and the beautiful can alike be villainous in Sabatini's novels. And while I often find his limited/inaccurate ideas about historical gender roles and, ahem, womanly character annoying, Valeria, Beatrice, and an unnamed prostitute all come off very well in this, as interesting characters working to make their way in a society that put limitations on how they might do so. (These are the only women in the book, so... there is that. Still.) The political machinations of Valeria and Beatrice are particularly interesting. Also: the romantic pining/tension in this is ridiculously satisfying to me. As previously mentioned, it was a favorite of mine half a lifetime ago, so I'm favorably disposed towards it, but... I like it. And as with other elements in the novel, Sabatini's use of implication is masterful.
This is an old book, first published in 1926, so it is interesting to compare it to the modern historical fiction and adventure fantasy novels I mainly read. Let us first be clear, this story set in Italy of the early 1400s, has no fantastical components. The places are real and major events reflect history. It was a turbulent time with many little wars between the independent cities, some backed by larger players such as France or the Holy Roman Emperor. Mercenary soldiers thrived, the best (or luckiest) amassing vast fortunes and titles. This is the tale of how Bellarion rose rapidly from himble beginning to become vastly wealthy prince and renowned mercenary commander, and for me it still works as a story. It must be said that the writing style is something of a barrier, being florid and over-descriptive compared with modern books. The central character Bellarion is also rather too perfect, being a factor of ten smarter than anyone else, apart from his long-term antagonist Marquis Theodore; I prefer my characters more flawed and human. However, overall this has stood the test of time fairly well.
This has been a perplexing and highly gratifying read.This novel has thrown me off-balance. Not that I did not find familiar elements from Roth’s writings. Many of those I can recall from his Hotel Savoy. True, the title itself, Flight Without End, already releases these themes: transient existences, lives on the border, rootlessness, yearning, all of them with a tint of hopelessness and alienation. Or from Weights and Measurest: the determinant role of conditions and settings in the existence of the individual, the hidden but preponderant hand of fate in the life of any specific human. I was also familiar with the fine ironic tone and and the flavour of a fairy tale encountered in The Tale of the 1002nd Night: A Novel, and with the social and political criticism of the The Radetzky March.But there was something additional this time: the bizarre role of the narrator and his claims.For the subtitle of this novel, Bericht, or Report, announces the claims with which it begins.Joseph Roth writes that he is giving us an account of the life of his friend Franz Tunda, and that it is all based on Tunda’s narration and notes. That nothing is literarily composed (dichten) and that it is the result of observation.And so it seems at the beginning. There is certainly an air of detachment from the third person narrator, but soon Roth’s subtle and humorous irony is noticeable. The factual and impersonal sentences are interspersed by acute perceptions with a tint of personal judgment. A painting is not a photograph. And so he delivers the story of an uprooted man, an Austrian First Lieutenant who is captured by the Russians and sent to prison in Siberia from where he escapes. We follow him in his itinerary of survival, through the white and red Russia, through Crimea, through Azerbaijan. We are exploring the borders: political, topographic, ideological, social... until we reach Vienna again. Once back home I felt at first a change of tone. The narration becomes more personal and Tunda’s diaries are explicitly quoted, and these are followed by some letters, until Joseph Roth himself appears, no longer as an anonymous narrator who keeps at a distance, but in his persona, naming specific times and places, and the fiction with which this novel began, the ‘report’, seems to be taken up again. That shift in the resonance and the intonation that disconcerted my reading is modulated back and fully resolved. The novel, in its format and plot, finishes its circle.Even if the conclusion is that Franz Tunda has not found his place in that circle. He is left outside that circle:  He had no profession, no love, no joy, no hopes, no pride and no trace of Selfishness. There was no one in the world as superfluous as him. (view spoiler)[ (my translation - Er hatte keinen Beruf, keine Liebe, keine Lust, keine Hoffnung, keinen Ehrgeiz und nicht einmal Egoismus. So überflüssig wie er war niemand in der Welt.) (hide spoiler)].And it is inevitable that not in the fictional Joseph Roth, but in the fictionalized Franz Tunda we do recognize the real Joseph Roth. As a citizen of the multicultural, sophisticated, hegemonic Austro-Hungarian empire who lived through WW1 and through the demise of his homeland, he knew about the dissolution of borders and the faculty that limitations have in creating identities. One can also guess Roth’s own literary interests in his including a copy of Thomas Mann’s The Magic Mountain from 1924 in the setting of the novel. Or in his mentioning of Proust in this work of 1927, when the Frenchman’s last volume was published in that same year.Joseph Roth has been identified with the Neue Sachlichkeit or 'New Objectivity', a German art movement, which in my mind I associate more with a pictorial rather than a literary output. Roth apparently rejected this association. Artists always reject being pigeonholed. But may be we ought to understand that it is the artists themselves who create their own categories by finding new and idiosyncratic modes of expression. So it is not that they are being pigeonholed but that they create the pigeonholes. And indeed in the German wiki this novel is used as an example of this literary  Neue Sachlichkeit. And this makes perfect sense to me. There it was all the time, the characteristic of Roth’s writing that so appeals to me but that not until this work, had I identified it so clearly. His mode consciously avoids cheap sentimentality and false profundity. Powerful writing does not need to drown the reader with a rigmarole of adjectives that just float away with their pointlessness or stick to your skin like sickly sugar. And yet some of his sentences or observations could either slice your heart or make you look down into a beckoning void. For he delivers to us the portrait of a man who avoids props and any other sort of social accoutrement, and fleeing his framework endlessly, ends on his own as a single object.But can we say that there is no subject giving us this view?Please, I will have some more Joseph Roth to read.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
If I were allowed to read just one author from now on, I would have hard time leaving Roth out. His lightness of touch and deceptive simplicity, his ability to see in simple everyday life things others don't see, his deep sense of humanity, and of course his mastery of language, are ingredients that in my eyes make a writer that can hardly be bettered by any other. This is a short work, full of the above qualities, although one could argue that the story does not lead anywhere in particular, and that some questions remain unanswered
A fascinating, easy to read little book (provided you care about what he's writing about). Bultmann's starting point is the fairly undeniable fact that Jesus, and early followers of Jesus, expected the world to end within their lifetimes. It didn't. What do you do about that? If you're a theologian like Bultmann, you'll accept that "the course of history has refuted mythology," but argue that there's something important underlying the mythology. It's in his understanding of mythology that Bultmann starts to get into trouble, because he doesn't distinguish between hermeneutics (the idea that all interpretations have to begin from a series of assumptions or biases), and existentialism, the idea that Man is Confronted By His Existence as a Question and so on: from a later perspective, he can't see that there's a difference between early Heidegger and later Gadamer. This matters because he wants to understand 'mythology' as, roughly, the historically bounded starting point for the understanding of God. Particularly for biblical texts, this reveals itself whenever writers try to give a physical form to transcendent ideas--God smote Billy with a giant oak and so on. Nobody believes that these things happened. So Bultmann's demythologizing approach to the bible makes sense. Most people don't believe that the world is about to end; to that degree, we cannot be Christians. But perhaps if you get rid of the historically untenable bits of biblical texts, you can find something worthwhile in Christianity nonetheless. The attractiveness of this view is fairly obvious, and I suspect that most religious people must make some use of it, if only to say that slaying Amelakites was okay for Ancient Hebrews, but not so much for us. The problem here is that Bultmann insists that 'our' standpoint for interpreting religion *must be* modern, specifically, that it must be Heideggerian. This leads to much maundering about Existence and Being and Questions that might be useful for understanding how we approach hammers, but doesn't really match up with people's actual problems, viz., war, exploitation, bigotry and so on. Luckily you can demythologize Bultmann himself: yes, readers must 'interpret' the bible. Yes, they must do this from a particular perspective. Yes, that perspective shouldn't be intellectually irresponsible. But none of that means we have to be existentialists* worried about how people keep seeking security, as if that were somehow a greater evil than those who keep trying to undermine peace. Also, watching him try to explain how the doctrine of justification is completely different from seeking security is really funny. But if, like me, you're interested in the bible, but not a fundamentalist, this little book will give you some ideas for explaining your interest to your more rabid atheist friends. *: Ridiculously, Bultmannn combines his general existentialism with a Kantian understanding of the moral law. Consider my gob smacked.
This book is lucid and brief, in the argument for the demythologization of the New Testament and in the exposition of the notion that exegesis is never without presupposition. Another thing Bultmann makes clear, very usefully, is that there is a difference between discussing existential realities and existentialist philosophy: the former has to do with personal encounters and the historicity of humanity while the latter has to do with the formal properties and the meaning of existence. Because Bultmann denies that God can be analyzed in the latter sense, and that God works within history, not from without it, a demythologization of the New Testament will not lead us to a faith in God, but will provide, in some ways, an existential encounter with the text: by understanding our life-situation, we are confronted with the responsibility for that situation. I'd recommend it to anybody interested in biblical exegesis and the problem of the concept of God.
Rudolf Bultmann asks great questions concerning the contemporary import of the 2,000 year old proclamation that Jesus is Lord. What are the issues for "modern" man to proclaim, to understand and to respond to that message? How does "modern" man relate to "ancient" man without collapsing into C.S. Lewis' chronological snobbery? What is religious myth and how do we determine it from historical fact? What, why and how is de-mythologizing? This is a quick but potent read. A book that will stay with me as long as I live. Not for the answers given but for the questions raised. A must read for some.
A fascinating yet easy read. The final chapter The Meaning of God as Acting is worth the five stars alone. Do I agree with Bultmann in everything? (that modernity demands we de-mytholgize the New Testament to the extent that he proposes, or in his seeming rejection of metaphysical statements about God or the afterlife) NO. But a brilliant book on Christianity from an existentialist perspective. For the afterlife I recommend Unamuno.
I used to despise Bultmann's existentialist approach to hermeneutics; this is no longer the case. This is a really short (and easy) work in which Bultmann outlines his project of demythologization. To understand Modern theology, Bultmann is a must read.
Very academic
I liked this. I agreed more or less, and I appreciated the readability. I just think it could have been put together better.
For a so-called "ephoch-making" work wrestling with amongst other things Jesus Christ and mythology (duh), a search for a Biblical hermenuetic, eschatalogy, and the philosophical impact of Heidegger this is a surprisingly short and simple read.Personally, I have read much about Bultmann but had yet to read any of his works. Had I known how simple he was to read I might have started earlier as I found this book engagging and a delight to read.Still, one must not mistake simplicity with a lack of profundity or complexity. Bultmann is simple but complex. To grasp his thesis that a thoroughly eschatalogical faith (i.e. the faith of Jesus) must be one that de-mythologizes the Scriptures to arrive at historical Jesus is certainly a full one at that.
Meh. I didn't really buy most of his premises, and thus can't accept his argument or conclusions. He seems to be looking at everything from exclusively a post-enlightenment materialistic view, at the expense of the actual text he claims to be supporting. So, he's reading "the bible" instead of listening to the witness in the bible of the men who wrote it: Moses, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Paul, Jesus, etc....
Very smart guy, very tightly woven argument... not persuasive to me though. He is a stepping stone in hermeneutics, nothing to end on, but something one should read and be familiar with, many good points.
Don't let the title fool you. The book is not meant to debunk Christianity. It just gives another method of interpretation in which anyone may extract the truths found in scripture.
A classic.
My review is not about the Audio Cassette, rather than a collection of short stories by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, titled after one of them, The Lion's Mane. It was the first book I read in English. It also turned out to be the first book about Sherlock Holmes that I read and, not unexpectedly, I found it quite enjoyable. The fact that it contained various short stories not that much connected with each other also made it a bit easier to read, taking in mind it was the first book I read in any foreign for me language.I would guess there are not much negative opinions on the works of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and I'd recommend this book to any fan of Sherlock Holmes and mystery stories in general.
The ninth short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. Sherlock Holmes is retired, but a murder mystery intrigues him. An entertaining mystery.
In this story, Sherlock Holmes is enjoying his retirement in Sussex when one day at the beach, he meets his friend Harold Stackhurst, the headmaster of a nearby preparatory school called The Gables. No sooner have they met than Stackhurst's science master, Fitzroy McPherson, staggers up to them, obviously in agony and wearing only an overcoat and trousers. He collapses, manages to say something about a "lion's mane", and then dies. He is observed to have red welts all over his back, administered by a flexible weapon of some kind, for the marks curve over his shoulder and round his ribs.Moments later, Ian Murdoch, a mathematics teacher, comes up behind them. He has not seen the attack, and has only just arrived at the beach from the school. Holmes sees a couple of people far up the beach, but thinks they are much too far away to have had anything to do with McPherson's death. Likewise, the few fishing boats off the beach are too far out.It emerges that Murdoch and McPherson were friends, but had not always been. Murdoch is an enigmatic fellow with an occasional bad temper. He once threw McPherson's dog through a plate-glass window, for instance. Despite this, Stackhurst is sure that they were friends.McPherson also had a lover, and on further investigation, it turns out that Maud Bellamy was McPherson's fiancée. A note confirming a meeting with her was found on McPherson, but it gave no clear details.Holmes goes to look at the lagoon formed by a recent storm that local men have been using as a bathing pond. He sees McPherson's towel lying there dry and concludes that he never went into the water. Holmes arranges to have the caves and other nooks at the foot of the cliffs searched, expecting that nothing and no-one will turn up. He is right.Stackhurst and Holmes decide to go and see Miss Bellamy to see whether she can shed any light on this perplexing mystery. Just as they are approaching The Haven, the Bellamys' house, they see Ian Murdoch emerge. Stackhurst demands to know what he was doing there, and an angry exchange ensues with Murdoch declaring in effect that it was none of Stackhurst's business. Stackhurst loses his temper and sacks Murdoch on the spot. He storms off to get ready to move out.They visit the Bellamys and find an amazingly beautiful woman in Maud Bellamy, but two most unpleasant men in her father and muscular brother. It seems that they did not approve of the liaison between Maud and McPherson. They do not even find out about the engagement until this meeting, such has been the secrecy of their affair. Maud says that she will help however she can, but it does not seem likely that she can do anything. It emerges, however, that Ian Murdoch was once a potential suitor to Miss Bellamy. Holmes begins to suspect that Murdoch may be responsible for McPherson's death, out of jealousy.A further mystifying clue presents itself when McPherson's dog is found dead at the very pool where McPherson met his end. It obviously died in agony, much as its master did. At this point, Holmes begins to suspect something else. The dead man's dying words, "lion's mane," have triggered a memory, but he cannot quite call it back to mind.Inspector Bardle of the Sussex Constabulary visits Holmes to ask if there is enough evidence to arrest Ian Murdoch. Holmes is sure that there is not. The case is most incomplete, especially as Murdoch has an alibi. He also could not have singlehandedly overcome McPherson, who was quite strong, despite having heart trouble. The two men also consider McPherson's wounds. The weals actually looked as though they may have been administered by a hot wire mesh, or perhaps a cat o' nine tails. Holmes has formed a theory which might explain McPherson's death and is about to go back to the bathing pond to test it.As he is about to leave, Murdoch arrives, helped in by Stackhurst, who is afraid that Murdoch might be dying; he fainted twice in pain. He has the same wounds on him that McPherson had. In great agony, he calls for brandy, passes out, but finally recovers.At the bathing pond, Holmes spots the murderer: it is a Lion's Mane Jellyfish (Cyanea capillata), a deadly creature about which Holmes has read. Holmes takes a rock and kills it. He shares the story by John George Wood of an encounter with just such a jellyfish with the other men. Murdoch is exonerated, of course. It turns out that he was acting as a go-between for McPherson and Maud, and did not wish to discuss it with anyone. The story ends on an upbeat note as Stackhurst forgives Murdoch and gives him his job back.Another very entertaining Sherlock Holmes short story! I recommend this book to all readers that appreciate a well written mystery book.
You are about 10 years old when you discover this story. It is found in the book The Return of Sherlock Holmes. I see everything in clear daylight; I remember this story vividly - and I read it 50 years ago! Wow! I remember also the cover of the book TROSH; a very bland green cover. What a story! Unforgettable. I would recommend any Sherlock Holmes story as highly recommended reading. What a genius this man Conan Doyle way - though I don't think much of his 'philosophy' and 'political leanings'. He was a great story-writer. Funny, it says The Adventure of the Lion's Mane (Audio). Books are meant to be read, and yes, stories are meant to be heard. But this is literary stuff, and you must read the printed page, my friend. Audio is only second-best.
Sherlock Holmes's retired and spending his time on his researches leisurely, but wherever he goes , whatever he does, he just cant scape from an episode. Its a bit different story without his long time partner Watson, I really missed him in this adventure. But as usual, Conan Doyle keeps the readers on the edge throughout the story. I'll think twice before going for a swim now on.
Having recently seen the film Mr Holmes at the cinema I thought it was time to read, once again, a Conan Doyle story set after the great detective's retirement. This is a fairly straightforward adventure, this time narrated by Holmes instead of Watson. Good characters & a simpler plot than some of the stories, but very enjoyable nonetheless.
The Adventure of the Lion's Mane was a true gem in the canon. Not only were the characters beautifully characterized but the narration by Holmes was yet another testament to Doyle's craftsmanship. Truly one of my favorites so far!
holmes writing his own tales is a terrible thing to read, oh yeah sherlock it was the fucking jellyfish that did it
Sherlock Holmes, brilliant as always!
Guy de Maupassant is very likely the greatest short story writer who ever lived. His gift for capturing whole worlds in just a few pages is without equal. He had the most astonishing imagination allied to a perfect grasp of language. His writing is superbly disciplined, his visual sense is such that he can make you see the scenes he is describing in your mind's eye, and his sense of character is such that the people in his stories are living, breathing, believable characters. Nothing is perfect, but Maupassant comes close.
Endles stories of seduction, and betrayal. Women are unfathomable playthings. I realize that he was writing about the culture and social set he was involved in, but it was all too much for me. He died of syphilis - I understand why.
Time to write a reivew. I don't feel like it, but the sheer brilliance of Maupassant has forced me to write one. I've read "The Best of Maupassant" a long time ago and I wasn't that impressed. The problem with all those best of collections is that you sometimes miss out on some really amazing things just because the person responsible for putting together the book didn't think they were that great. That is precisely the case here. Most of my favourite stories weren't even included in that collection. What's more, "best of" would imply those writings are better than the rest of the author's opus which clearly isn't the case here - Maupassant manages to keep all of his stories (barring a few oddballs) at a very high level. That's extremely impressive. Also, now that I'm older, I tend to appreciate the bitterness (or bittersweetness in some cases) of his stories a lot more. Most are very relatable and not dated at all. The mood he sets, which happens to be one of the things I value the most, is brilliant in most of his stories. His influence on Lovecraft is undeniable. In conclusion, Maupassant is one of the best (if not the best) short story writers I've ever read.Now would also be a good time to elaborate my ratings:Clearly, the ratings added in bulk after creating my Goodreads accounts are somewhat inaccurate. Misclicks might've happended, and it's harder to rate books properly if you don't stop for a few moments and think about them, which I clearly didn't do because I had so many books to add. Also, some ratings change after I read the book for the second (or third) time; nowadays I tend to appreciate some things a lot more than I used to. Obivously, all of the ratings are subjective. An enjoyable read and a lasting impact equal a higher rating. Clearly, great writing leads to both of the aforementioned things.No rating:  Books I've read a long long time ago or just didn't know how to rate.1 star:  Crème de la crème, the complete and utter shit that doesn't deserve to be called literature.2 stars: Books I regret having read, a waste of my precious time.3 stars: Books I'm glad I've read, but couldn't relate to or found them too lacking in most areas. Some of the books here are actually really well written, but not my cup of tea. Let's throw in a quote from the movie In Bruges: "...kind of like the in-betweeny one. You weren't really shit, but you weren't all that great either. Like Tottenham."4 stars: All of the books here had one flaw too many to get a five star rating. That's pretty much all I can say.5 stars: These are the great works that have left a huge impression on me, that are really well written or manage to be so enjoyable that I can look past some flaws (think Looking for Alaska).Some books deserve more than 5 stars. A prime example would be The Book of the New Sun series by Gene Wolfe, the best thing I've ever read. It deserves a thousand stars. I don't think perfection exists, but that is as close as it gets.
Meh.I don't see the hype. Ball-of-Fat is told well but, it lacks suspense. I love the social commentary but, it just didn't make it for me. Maupassant also uses sex as a plot device often. Nowadays, in this secular culture, what was once edgy, is now rather tame. Nothing worth reading. But, props for beautiful imagery and poetic language.
All a little different - had read The Necklace (surprise ending) and wanted to read more of him.
masterful short stories
Perfection of the short story. His ability to note what was going on around him is supreme. I realize that for an observant author every big or small event that occurs lends itself to the compactness of a story with a moral, a laugh, a comment, an unexpected outcome. Learning to guess the game of where a story is going is great fun with a master like Guy de Maupassant. Nothing more relaxing than a volume of best short stories.
This book cannot be reviewed by mortals. I have read hundreds of short story collections- none quite as rich in variety and amazing in character portrayal as Maupassant's tales. I think I need to come up with a superlative for LOVE to describe what infinite reverence and affection I feel for the writer and his work.
My favorite short story author
Guy de Maupassant is one of my most favorite short story authors. His writing is crisp, concise, imaginative and very poetic. I am very glad I stumbled upon him in college. Became an instant fan!
Absolutely loved it. Paul's Mistress is probably among my favorite short stories, Maupassant is really an amazing writer. I wish I could read them in French!
Just because you put together beautiful words, it doesn’t make it a great story ​
Nothing special here. I kind of liked the setting in New York, as opposed to a smaller New England town. I also like, despite not loving this story, the trend in those old days of writers making their hero realistic in that they can be frightened. The story pretty much ends with the protagonist legging it and then collapsing in horror.
I would give this five stars if it weren’t for the blatant racism. It’s really astounding to me that someone so educated could also be such a blithering bigot. Yeah, it was a different time back then and blah blah blah, but I still expect more from people of those days who were educated. Totally disappointing.
This is one of the least interesting short stories by Lovecraft, marred by his strong xenophobia. It is almost a political manifesto, with a layer of fiction on top, explaining what the author believes are the dangers of mixing with other cultures (at the time mainly Southwestern European and East Asians).The narrator, an aspiring poet, wanders the night streets of New York. His first sunset glimpse of the city thrilled him, for it appeared majestic above its waters, its incredible peaks and pyramids rising flower-like and delicate from pools of violet mist. But daylight reveals squalor, architectural excess, and swarms of squat and swarthy foreigners (horrifying to Lovecraft). Wondering at night he encounters a like minded individual, that show him the beauty of the city that was, and the horrors of the city that will be.
Cool story.
This is a story in which you really see the deep links between Lovecraft's extreme racism and the themes in his horror stories. Reading these stories is depressing me. I may have to stop.
Whitehead, co-author with Bertrand Russell of the Principia Mathematica, is remarkable as a philosopher strongly interested in religion who attempted to relate theology to the contemporary fields of particle physics and cosmology.
I really should stop reading philosophy books. Although I didn't really appreciate the latter portions of the book, it's enjoyable how Whitehead tries to explain the evolution of religion and the existence of God. The conclusion is particularly good: 'He (God) is that element in virtue of which our purposes extend beyond values for ourselves to values for others. He is that element in virtue of which that attainment of such a value for others transforms itself into value for ourselves.'
Excellent work on religion and it's function in the world. Whitehead puts forth amazing ideas about God and religion that is both groundbreaking and game changing, and this is 90 years old. Looking forward to studying this work and Whitehead further.
God! The things people for love and what not. The ending kinda surprised me.
Racist, sexist, bullshit which should never have been published.
Again a fine story with fine ending.
Brilliant (especially when you consider this was published in 1926)