Finally, tired of a world that he believes is false and unreal, he commits suicide.The two characters whose experiences form the core of the novel--Clarissa and Septimus--share a number of similarities.Even as their lives mirror, parallel and cross--Clarissa and Septimus take different paths in the final moments of the novel.
They remark on nature and almost, almost, compare it to this new modern life.Granted, the Romantics made it sound sublime, but they captured the heart of it: they didn’t combine city life, with its connotations of ordinariness and industry, with the real essence of nature.So this new modern thing then, is it good?
True, it centers on what we would now call a cocktail party – Mrs. Dalloway lived for those and hosted them frequently – but it’s also the day when a former flame of hers (the fire on his part, not hers) returns from five years in India.
THE TERMINATOR 2 OF DOILEYSI can see why people hate Mrs-Dalloway-the-book (there are a fair few this-is-so-boring-I-lit-myself-on-fire kind of one/two star reviews) because Mrs Dalloway-the-book is the Terminator 2 of doileys, ribbons, and fetching hats, the Die Hard 4 of a sunny day in London, 1923, the Apocalypto of curtains and place mats and memories of moonlight boating parties; and the Transformers of wondering if you married the right person.
The novel is far less interested in defining Clarissa Dalloway as an individual than in exploring the many-sided effects she has on an assortment of others; by the end of the narrative, Woolf has offered her readers not a neat portrait of a personality but several impressionistic sketches of the same subject.
It’s a deeply elegiac novel and one of the finest celebrations of the beauty to be gleaned in the passing moment I can think of.Perhaps - perhaps.” Well, no question, Virginia still haunts certain places –pretty much every London location she writes about in this novel.
This is not insignificant, perhaps, but still we admit that it is not too far from it.Yet it is in complete disregard of the emptiness of the romantic frame of this masterpiece, because what happens there really worth, it's a real literary revolution!It is because there has already been a time when women did not have the right to write!
and on, talking to everyone I love and respect as they walk on by, smiling in perfect accord with them as they waved back and responded to her in the same language that she kept me prisoner listening to.A great chunk of this book was like (to go with my resentful gardener) seeing a light under the ground of a frozen over garden, faintly, but unmistakably there, and spending all day hacking at that damn spot, needing to see what’s under it, trying with spades, hoes, kitchen knives, fucking machetes if I have to...
I read Mrs. Dalloway sometime between "The Hours" film was released and college (2002-2003), knowing pretty well what it aimed at--to chronicle life as it is lived, with plenty of characters to populate the sphere that’s immediately around the titular protagonist, the hopeless hostess of parties; all their thoughts at once made clear and later muddled with the novel’s own moving train of consciousness.
That is not the case here – it is very easy for me to tell why others would like this book and I think it was very interesting at its core; it is just the delivery that did not work for me.I hesitate to actually say that I read this.
Of Life and Death, Verbs and NounsI expected this novel to be difficult.However, it wasn't difficult at all.The novel might happen in the head of Clarissa Dalloway or the other characters, but they are observing activity and their thoughts reflect it.It is more dynamic than passive or self-conscious or self-reflective.It was less a stream of consciousness, than a consciousness of life as a stream or a number of streams,
Of Life and Death, Verbs and NounsI expected this novel to be difficult.
Plus, I'm pretty sure there's a special loophole in the Important Book rules that says people who read *Mrs. Dalloway* don't have to finish *Ulysses,* *especially* if you are a girl (hey, I know that's not fair, but I don't make the rules).
In Mrs. Dalloway, Woolf’s able to achieve complete well-roundedness for a half-dozen people in a smattering of pages; where each person is valuable and each is misguided, where disagreements truly have two (or more) reasonable sides, where issues of right wrong black white are utterly absent, dismissed as child’s play, uninteresting.
Mrs. Dalloway is one of those books one is supposed to adore for its disruption of convention and innovative use of time, sound, parallel narrative structure etc.Rather, Mrs. Dalloway really annoys me as a character, and I feel the need to explore this since many of my friends cringe when I tell them I'm just not that into her.
I love her enthusiasm of trivial things, everything is bright and alive in this book it's all so clever but it felt too clever for me at times and felt like I needed a degree in English literature to get more from this reading experience as a whole.
This was unlike anything I had read before, full of (both obscure and lucid) profound observations and meanderings of the human mind, written in beautiful, fluid prose much like the ebb and flow of the tides.
Instead, I read a novel about some men who hated the army.dos Passos would have served his audience better had he provided some detail that leads to these men hating the army.And, somehow, dos Passos seemed to be of the opinion that everyone should be in charge of whatever work they wanted to do - even in the Army!
So fresh, so vivid. A masterpiece.
Beautiful, brilliant, thought-provoking and inciting, this personal argument against society, civilization and war will never stop digging at cherished illusions and demanding answers.
Very depressing but wonderful view into World War I, what military service can do to people, and the changes engendered that can change the course of their lives.
I guess going in I was expecting something more like All Quiet on the Western Front.I think my favorite was Andrews' observation that life was to be used to some value, not like a box of bonbons stored on a shelf and never eaten.
This is the story of three soldiers during WWI.(Spoiler-The war ends in the middle of the book.) Dos Passos has a style that is not for everyone.I found this book to be OK, but a bit long.I prefer his shorter WWI story "One Man's Initiation" to be more accessible.
Further, I was never in any doubt as to what the author wanted me to think and how he wanted me to feel, when I would have preferred to simply feel and think for myself.That said, I don’t regret the time I spent listening to the novel, which was beautifully narrated by George Guidall, and I plan to read more of Dos Passos’ work.
Maybe it's because after 450+ pages, I still hadn't figured out what made them tick.What makes that odd is that they spent the entire book lost in introspection and talking about themselves.This is the only war book I've ever read that had no combat scenes.Maybe.
One of the great joys in my life are the friends who send me books.Thankful to my friend, Steve, for sending me this classic.A peer of Hemingway and Faulkner, Dos Passos shares a story based on his own experience as an ambulance driver in World War I.
Hauntingly beautiful....this is not a thriller per se.....but I truly enjoyed it and the ending....blew me away.
Three Soldiers more like Three Pretentious Assholes.I realize that Dos Passos was giving his perspective of the war and his distaste for the military.I'm pretty sure that the only trees that Dos Passos is aware of are poplars.
Most of the great American modernist books are forgotten, passed over for Faulkner (eh) and Hemingway (double eh).And WWI is the best possible illustration of the transformation of American society from human-scale small towns to mass industrialism that was Dos Passos' great subject.
This was an interesting a good book about some of the horrors of war and how it can break down the spirit of a person.It addressed how the system could tell on a man and certainly what is today called PTSD is very very present.I will try to read more by Dos Passos.
I started reading this story this morning, kind of vaguely thinking I had probably already read it.Note: Allow me to bitch about the Library of America edition of Lovecraft's "Tales." The Library of America publishes some handsome looking books.The above story should have been included.
Great descriptions of what is to be found there, if not altogether easy to follow.I feel like there is a certain way to read Lovecraft that I hopefully will figure out soon.
My other problem with this was Lovecraft describing completely neutral things as outlandishly horrible, such as the extreme age of the ruins (awe-inspiring maybe, but horrible?) or the steepness of the steps the character has to descend (dizzying and sickening perhaps, but horrible?).
He relies heavily on making the horror explicit through words such a "terrible" "horrendous" or "terrifying" to convey the dread of his plot instead of letting the reader feel these emotions trough his own imagination.The way he conveys the aura of his settings is clearly sufficient to inspire terror in he reader without the need to emphasize these feelings explicitly.
it was cool
Weird, atmospheric, intriguing. I liked it.
Thank god it is a short story
Inspirational mood and setting.
I'm actually reading this from a giant "complete" collection of Lovecraft's fiction on my Kindle, but I'm going to log as many of the novels and stories separately, so I can actually make ratings and comments on each one, really for my own benefit.I am a big fan of Lovecraft's mythology, but I've only read a smattering of the stories so far.
When I drew nigh the nameless city I knew it was accursed.In typical Lovecraftian style, our narrator, a lone traveler, searches for a mysterious and ancient city, decides to explore it despite all sorts of ominous warnings to flee, and descends into madness from the sheer horror of it.Great stuff.
And I knew I was in for a treat when the main character described that the Nameless City's architecture was low.Too low, in fact, for humans to walk through.As with all his stories, Lovecraft uses scene description to heighten the fear and horror of the main character's plight.Fun stuff!
Lovecraft's writing style.I think the fact that Lovecraft uses so much detail when describing.....everything....is what I don't like about his stories.I can get a somewhat good image in my head of what is taking place in the story, it's just that the author goes on and on for so many more sentences?
In a sort of synthesis, Russell states that reality yields not in matter nor in mind, but in a mixture of both.The study of that mix would allow us to see the true correlations (e.g. causal relations) between mind and matter.Russell appeals for a multidisciplinary approach in all sciences.
That is not to say that Russell fails here in his attempt, because I believe he succeeds wholeheartedly, but it is clear that this is not his area of expertise (as he carefully notes more than once), and I don't think he was quite well-read enough in the current psychological literature of the day to allow him to flesh out some of the chapters.
Nothing like the joy of Public Domain books.I'll admit that I haven't read too much philosophy, but this was probably a good choice for me considering my background.I especially enjoyed the lecture on language and will probably look into more linguistic theory in the future.
The book is mind blowing.It gives you insight of how mind works.You will know the more about how we understand, remember, dream, recollect and worry.You can't read fast as it is a mind stretching subject !!!
A great one!
I'm honestly fascinated with this book.I recall having read bits of it for a psychology class and more bits for a philosophy class.However, I never read the entire thing ─ even though I actually have the book on my shelf.I need to read the book, not listen to it, and take notes.
Russell is the most accessible of all philosophers that I have read so far.
The only real purpose I can see for this book is historical, as a look into the thoughts and attitudes of people in the 1920's.Did people really believe this was real science when this came out?I've seen recent reviews from people on Amazon who gave this book a high rating and thought the methods described would be helpful for analyzing people.
The best book no one has ever heard of!Can you really determine a person's whole character by the shape of his or her hands, or face?Elsie says you can and I believe her, because the measurements she gives for deciding each person have been so scarily accurate, I almost don't believe it.
Especially the bit about 'fat people' - how they make a 'beeline' for the widest chair and how the 'fat man' is predominantly seen in the Jewish faith (!!!).It's also a bit of an eye-opener, as we can clearly see that the entrepreneurial pseudo-socio scientist model was prevalent even back then.I wonder what 'type' Ms. Benedict was...
Stereotypes based on physical characteristics are probably as accurate as astrology or birth order, so take with a pound of salt, but there is some truth to this book.Stereotypes exist for reasons, the chief one being that most people we encounter in life we must make judgements on quickly and with as little information as a single glance.
We have interviewed countless popcorn and fruit vendors on this subject and every one of them told us that fat people keep them in business.Are. You.Like the infant, he demands food first.Almost the only time a fat man loses his temper is when he has been deprived of his food.
Utter garbage.I can't really mark this as 'read' because in no way did I finish it.It's terrible fluff, padded with needless "examples" of the (supposed) true types of people.Don't bother.
Want to get ideas for characters based on stereotypes, this book is for you.The judgments and analyses are so naive you can do danger to yourself and others if you follow the ideas presented in this silly book.I gave it 2 stars instead of 1 because the literary value is good for basing characters off for writers.
It's funny but if you look at it closely but People who complain about this book are the ones who cannot accept and do not like the type they are after they have learned which one they are.
Have you ever read a book that was full of hot air and gave very little information or advice?That's what this book seemed like to me.Overall, this seemed to be nothing more than a lot of short choppy musings that didn't seem to go any where.Reading this was a waste of time.
Very politically incorrect as it was written in the 20s but still very interesting!
Astoundingly difficult to read due to the book's format and the author's choice to deliver unrelated or repetitive "micro chunks" of information.This book is also highly unscientific, racist, and, among other things, unusually shallow.Should only be read as an object of studying quack science or for fun, not as a serious endeavour.
The theories and concepts in this book are interesting and have some merit but thats about where it ends.I found myself thinking when I read the book that quite literally I fit not any of the 5 types but rather there are components of all types in me.That's why the theories in this book fall over.
Fairly an old book in relative terms.Very good insight and thought provoking parts.They psychology of fat and thin people, hailing from how they have come to be so, is brilliant!An interesting read overall!
It's interesting material, but scientifically ridiculous.Even if she had sources to back up what she says, there's absolutely no way I'd believe them after reading this book.Most of it is just logical assumptions.
Its a fun book to readYou can actually see a lot of truth in it
. A foreword by Heston Blumenthal puts this edition in context: "[Escoffier] said he wanted the book to be 'a useful tool rather than just a recipe book,' and that's exactly what it is." Another nice grace note--a very brief biography of Escoffier on pages xx-xxii by his grandson Pierre P.Then, some general principles on preparing sauces.
That's still true at a high level of proficiency, of course, but the mass-market cookbooks we're used to no longer operate that way.A word of warning--if you don't eat bacon, this book will be of limited usefulness.
A Guide to Modern Cookery
The best breakdown of French cooking I've seen
So it is that every serious cook should read Escoffier.It contains many recipes which the modern cook will not attempt; he assumes that one has unlimited supplies of truffles and fois gras at hand.I thought it would take a year to read them all; the task was accomplished in only ten months.
After 6000 hours in a Chef Apprenticeship, I can still recite most of the recipes in this book.That is what this book is about, you need to learn the proper way to do things before you explore, deconstruct and critic.
The association between strong spices and poor quality was powerful enough to survive long into the 20th century, as any reader of a 1950s American cookbook can attest.As for the recipes themselves, I doubt that many of them could be prepared by the North American home cook.
Ongoing interesting reading...seeing into the mind of the absolute culinary idealist!!!INSPIRING
Just got this from Powells. Very exciting.
Fabulous reference guide
Just ??????????As if he had to tell us about every existing myth that had a connection to Jason.I understand how the title of this book says 'The Golden Fleece and the Heroes Who Lived Before Achilles', but the main plot was originally about the Argonauts, so why talk about Pandora all of a sudden?Oh and also, Hades is called Aidoneus over here.
I started out really liking this book, but about a quarter of the way through it began to bore me to tears.I think that it was Twain who said something like, "Don't tell your readers that the lady is singing.
As a child, I couldn't keep the chronology straight, not without backtracking and rereading (which I wasn't inclined to do; thankfully, I heard the stories and my relatives could quickly catch me up to where I needed to be or I would've abandoned the book).
This book describes the voyage of the Argonauts in quest of the Golden Fleece.In these cases, I prefer eliding parts of the stories to changing them.
They start on their journey to the island of Colchis is, on their way they take breaks on other islands and help the community that is on the island.I would recommend this book to any one that has read the Percy Jackson series.It is a very good book that is for all ages.
This book is about a boy named Jason who goes on a quest to find the Golden Fleece.He was born in the wild by a centaur and one day he finds out who he really is and he needs to find the Golden Fleece.
Padraic Colum is the author of the Newberry Medal awarded story "The Golden Fleece and the Heroes Who Lived Before Achilles." This book is set is ancent Greece where a boy named Jason, son of the past King AEson, and many different Heroes set out on a quest to fin and bring back the Golden Fleece.
Anyone who is really interested in Greek mythology will love this book.It strikes me that this book would a great educational supplement for any literature or history unit concerning Greek mythology or ancient Greece.I can definitely see how this would be dry reading for anyone who doesn't find Greek mythology inherently interesting.
Fairly well-written compilation of the Golden Fleece and other stories of Greek heroes.Way more readable than a lot of fair for kids written at this time.Personally, I think this is a better book and has held up better than the Newbery winner that year, The Story of Mankind.
I picked it up again after recently completing Edith Hamilton's compilation of myths - that helped a lot.This book by Padraic Colum is supposedly meant for children / YA.Other than that, it really was quite dry, which explains why I dropped this book the first time.
Lots of good stories.Sometimes it uses name variants that are less familiar.Narrator OK, but not great - very dry.
Jason was the son of king Aeson, but becomes an orphan when he was 3 years old.Aeson send one of his slaves to take Jason to the king centaur.After a few years later Jason was given the chance to go see his parents and live free.
This book is about a youth named Jason who was fostered by a Chiron, the centaur.Will Jason be able to get THE GOLDEN FLEECE back to king Pelias, or will he die on his voyage to get it.I would give this book to anyone.
I wouldn't have even given this book a chance if I hadn't read the forward by Rick Riordan.The author has the heroes tell stories (myths) to each other while on their journey to gain back the Golden Fleece.All of the myth telling was boring and confusing.
So far I think The Golden Fleece and the Heros Who Lived Before Achilles is a cool book that is written in old english.Overall, I think the book The Golden Fleece and the Heros Who Lived Before Achilles is an awesome book but is for people with high reading skills.
I read some book about Jason and the Golden Fleece and other myths in the sixth grade, but I have no clue what the title was.The fact that this one was a Newbury Honor makes this one a safe guess.If anyone had Mrs. Collins at Parker and remembers more let me know!
Not a light, easy read, although it is easier to read than any history text I have had to tackle.I am reading this for pleasure, and it is an enjoyable book.It is written in a fast paced, novel-like style, but it is very involved and will take a while to finish.
I read this book years ago pre-GoodReads, but came across it in my bookcase this week.While it may not be for everyone, if you have Irish blood, this is all part of your heritage and you will probably find at least parts of this story to be interesting and make you even prouder to have Irish ancestors.
on page 32, i was already overwhelmed with all the tough names and decided to give up.
Tribal Ireland needed powerful kings to form a united front against foreign invaders.Indeed, Ireland was invaded and colonized so many times from so many directions that it is hard to say for sure who the Irish are.At times this book becomes a litany of atrocities committed against the Irish, but that's the way it was.
An _excellent_ book for those wanting to get a broad overview of Irish history.I read this about ten years ago.I picked it up and 'only put it down to eat'.If you have any Irish blood, it'll leaving you feeling like a nationalist.
Beautiful book which I return to frequently
So this book was very well written in my opinion.The chapters were relatively short, which made reading a bit easier, and the breakdown of information could have been done a bit better, but this was overall a good book.There were a lot of parts that I knew (or knew variants of), which was nice for me to read and see a different perspective (albeit slightly) on these stories.
I started reading this book about 10 years ago, but never got past the first couple of chapters.I'm not sure why, but I think it had to do mainly with the author's stilted and grandiose language, making it seem more like a propaganda work (which it surely was, being written during the Irish Civil War) than a serious scholarly work.
It begins with ancient oral history and ends in the 1920's.Ireland was invaded, but never conquered by any country except Brittan and even then the people were never conquered.Everyone should read this book because without this knowledge what happened in Ireland will happen someplace else.
I respect his pride in all things Irish, and I believe he does a good job giving Ireland credit for much that had been long neglected.MacManus is a good story teller and Ireland has a grand story to tell.
This is an interesting book about the Celts, Picts, Romans Christians, everybody who ever was on the Isle of Erin!It reads like a textbook, and reminded me of several Middle English books I read during college.Not in a bad way, just not an easy read-informative.
After two years of off and on reading this book I finally decided to just finish it!Despite being a history book it is an interesting read, especially for someone who knows their ancestors were Irish.
A great resource guide for little details.
Pedantic approach but intersting and complete history of the Irish People
A hard read, but worth it for the in-depth history.
Although not all are mentioned in Goodreads, I recommend ordering the Quest book editions.You can get them on Amazon or from Quest Books.First published in 1925 this book covers everything you ever wanted to know about the etheric double and its chakras.
I enjoyed reading every chapter.Impact on my healing approaches are yet to be explored.I definitely appreciate the teachings of my Guru with greater respect and gratitude.I liked the chapter on Death the most.The Inner reflection technique from Master Choa is such an impacting method to prepare for the best moment of life.
This book is one of a series each unit of which deals specifically with one of the bodies of humans and other beings as seen from the common "esoteric" perspective; ie, the etheric body, astral body, mental body, and causal body/ego.
I've read this masterpiece and this become my turning point, i never been the same.
My third time reading this, but there's always something (or rather, a lot of things) to talk/write about this book.As a novelette - as modern novelettes go - this isn't particularly outstanding.The plotline is nothing special; the main character Hidjo disappears for a large part of the book.
Too many unexplained side story, this book is not adequate for my taste.
Is it a love story with some political aspect or is it a politically-charged writing with some love intrigues (if it can be called an intrigue)?The love story is very lame.I'm contemplating....should I go ahead and accuse that they just plug in the text to Google Translator?A total waste of time.
GOOD BOOK
The narrator finally starts to go out into society and his reflections on it are as intriguing as his descriptions of nature, if not more so.
We see Christopher drawn deeper into despair by his wife Sylvia (probably one of the most evil, heartless characters I have read), suffering all the more cruelly because of his upstanding morals and good nature, and also by having a man die in his arms during a raid.
I found the beginning to be confusing, following Tietjen's train of thought and conversations was difficult with them being so disjointed and repetetive but I understand Ford's reasoning behind it.Sylvia Tietjen's character is complex and difficult.
Book two of Parade's End was a little hard to get into at first.A runner that Tietjens sends out comes back wounded and dies in his arms.In the middle of all that, Tietjens is made aware that his wife has come.
Deservedly acknowledged as one the major British novels of the inter war years.As a reader you are engrossed in the subtlety and refinement of the psychological portraits of the likable/unsufferable Tietjens, his deadly beautiful psychopath wife Sylvia and the supporting cast of characters.
Creating a 'good' character is difficult and the hero of Ford's novels is just that.The part of the book set in the trenches is one of the very best and most unusual treatments of World War One that I have read.I think the novels are seriously underrated.
Some of the chapters in this book were so long.It hurt.As a whole...this book is still awesome.Tietjens remains an intriguing character...as does Sylvia.And I can't wait to get to the next one.(Sort of...I need a break though).Excellent book though.Just exhausting.
Phew.900 plus pages of exquisite,complex prose and quite possibly the most unpleasant character ever created in literature in Sylvia Tjetiens.Wonderful...
You have to read the other two books, was it only to know how she ends up.Sadly I am not at all familiar with the army and customs within the army at all, so especially the first part was difficult to get through at times.You definitely need to read the whole tetralogy.
Perhaps the most challenging of the sequence, in terms of modernist difficulty as well as emotional anguish, but more than worth the effort: a book about the Great War should be painful, right?
In the journey from the start to the end we visit various historical events and figures, such as France and Joan of Arc.I found the trip a very interesting one, especially for the author's take on events of the times and the characters involved.
Some stories better than others, but on the whole, very good.
What a charming little read...by a nine year old...for adults.The story, in addition to charming, is also funny at times...along with the spelling.I mean she was nine years old.This is not a book for children even though it was written by one.I'm very glad I took the time to read these 77 pages.
Oh, what a queer little delight I just read.To all of you whining writers, this book was written by a nine-year-old and stood the test of time.It's pure story, from start to finish.Read it to study it and have a good laugh and a grin on your face when you're finished.
A nine-year-old with published book is the stuff of legend.But Daisy Ashford did it in the 1890s.The Young Visiters is very funny and very mature and well done for such a young child.She was clearly advanced for her age and had read many books herself.Everyone should read it at least once.
I read it for my Classic Juvenile Fantasy Literature class which mostly looks at literature written "for children," by adults, but this book seems to do the opposite.Or at least, it is the only book we cover that is written by a child.
Thanks to my friend Kim and Project Gutenberg I was able to read The Young Visiters this afternoon.I chuckled my way through it, impressed at the young Daisy's humour and wide range of vocabulary.I wish I had been that awesome as a nine year old.
I've read all of Jane Austen's juvenilia and enjoyed them very much.The Young Visitors also is a peace of juvenilia.Daisy Ashford wrote it when she was nine and re-discovered it several years later.It is fairly obvious why Ms Austen became a famous writer and we didn't hear anything from Ms Ashford again.
The Posy Simmonds illustrated edition with a different version of the text and explanatory notes.I love it more than I did the first time I read it.It's not just Daisy's ability to craft a story and describe a party scene, dialogue, a love scene, and so on; it's her acute observations of the culture and class structure of her time.
Hilarious, unintentionally so, for the most part, but one suspects that some of the humour was utterly intended; and that the young authoress (only nine years when she penned this story) might have gone on to become a successful and perhaps even renowned novelist had she persisted with her hobby of writing fiction.The opening line is a classic.
This was hilarious.
A must read for everyone.
So easy going - and then wham!Quentin Tarantino could learn a lot from E M Forster.He'd learn that there's no need to pile on the menace in the early stages.The shock, when it comes is much more effective if the reader/viewer has been led into thinking all is ordinary and relatively safe.
M. Forster is one of those legendary greats, as mysterious as he is beloved, I would point to his writing and say the same damn thing.I'm genuinely awed.Beyond simple, clear prose, I was enraptured by the humor and odd observations in the dialogues, the irony of Colonial England ladies wanting to see "The Real India", or the great way that every single character is painted without bias or slant.
This book is a classic peace of literature.It describes the differences in the western mindset and the eastern way of thought.There are marked differences in the religeons of Hindoism, Budism, Islam, Christianity and intellectualism.I recommend this book highly to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
The basic storyline is one of Adela and Mrs Moor touring India, but then Adela eventually convicts Dr Aziz of sexual harassment which he denies.However, the book has much more heart.It explains how impossible it is for the white men to fully understand India and its people.
The Marabar Caves are the key to the meaning of this novel, just as their counterpart in our collective unconscious is the key to understanding human existence, but that key, like the rest of India, is beyond my understanding.
I had a hard time getting into this.At the start there are many many characters to keep track of and I found it hard to form any relationships with them.I'm looking forward to reading more by this author.
In a sense, this is Swann passing the torch of unbearable, jealous love on to Marcel, who will carry it fiercly and for a long time.As you’ll remember his grandmother passed away during The Guermantes Way, and though her death devastated his mother, Marcel himself seemed almost unaffected by it.
Sodome et Gomorrhe by Marcel ProustAs mentioned in my previous notes, “reviews” on A La Recherche du Temps Perdu, Proust is my Favorite, Number One of All Time writer.My perspective on Sodome et Gomorrhe changed dramatically; in fact, I have a different view on Proust.
Thank you Mr. Thompson, my high school librarian, for another amazing book that I have now read with all my children!The books of James Willard Schultz deserve more attention than they get.But the cultural depictions--the societies (such as the seizers), the religious beliefs, the way of seeing the world--are amazing.
Enjoyable World War I morality tale.
Politics, Nations, Wilson & Congress...This is a single transcript of the act Rogers performed during the period immigrants following WWI .He was having the same luck with Republicans in Congress as Obama...It is amazing: few things have really changed since 1918 in politics, between nations, or Congress.
I had high hopes for this book and most of them were dashed.
very good
And looking at all of these great poets, guess who REALLY stands out?All of the bios talk about how each of these poets did something DIFFERENT, but T.S. Eliot is the one who really stands out.
I bought this for $1 at The Strand.Not so new or modern anymore, having last been updated in 1939, but still a lot of well-known and some more obscure (to me, anyway) writers.Plenty to love if you enjoy poetry as I do!
Read as a child but picked it up again as an adult.It is still wonderful after all these years.This was the book that got me interested in poetry.
The first time I read this, I loved Lady Brett Ashley.However, upon rereading the novel, I realized how eclipsed Jake had been by Brett during my first reading.
I could read chapters 3 and 4 of this book every day for the rest of my life and not get tired of them because of how much I love the dialogue and the character interactions.She loves to be doted on and seems to live her life like she must be out and about at all times, doing fun things.
I gave this one star because I wasn't old enough to drink or really enjoy much of anything when I first read it, and I haven't read it again since.I'm almost certain I'd still hate it though.
Every book I read for school is depressing.
I'm haunted by the scene of Wing Biddlebaum as a small, white, pitiful figure being chased through the field in the stark darkness.
5 short but gripping pages.
Solid detective fiction.
I'm not sure it was so great that I decided to read one from each of these authors at the same time.Besides confusing the main characters and the plots as I read, I saw only Humphrey Bogart as the lead in both of the books.Still, I'm glad to have read it.
Wonderful!
Pretty wonderful book about Auroville's other founder, The Mother...a beautiful woman.
"So Little book, So Much Inspiration"
There is many levels to this piece and multiple reading gives me different levels of understanding.
Outstanding commentary!
So glad I decided to read my grandmother's book.I think if he were to update it today, there would be changes, but the core is well-explained and outlined.Educational and inspiring.
Very good!
Studying the book of Revelation was the best study I have done.This book was absolutely the best study tool.Powerful.This is not a book you can just breeze through.It is a lot of clarity and understanding to take it.
bullfighting is an extremely gruesome and inhuman sport to say the least.i personally thought that the real hero of the story was the bull.there was fight left in this brave beast right till the end.that's what the mettle of a hero ought to signify....to see a fight right through to the end.
As some of the other reviewers have pointed out, yes bullfighting is a brutal sport and the young man isn’t exactly a hero, but neither of those observations get at the point of this story.This is a great example of Hemingway’s brutal and direct tone expressed through a story about struggle for all parties involved.
The text felt very real.I have watched a few bull fights just to see what's up on youtube, which made me feel disgusting.This short story made me feel the same.Still, it's well written, but I have issues with the content on a moral level, I guess.
Very dry and scholarly. Didn't finish.
Basically, it serves as an excuse for the author to nerd out over the achievements of various 12th century people.There is very little attempt to create an overall holistic picture of what intellectual life looked like in the 12th century or why a "renaissance" occurred in this time period (versus say the 11th or 13th centuries).
ES.O.TER.IC!(I got the book from my former mentor and French professor for whom the book was part of her Ph.D. studies.)But fascinating.And the language of it is delightful (written in the 1920s).Lots of "thrice"s and "thence"s and other interesting words I had to look up (which doesn't happen much to me anymore, with English anyway).
The Blessing Pan is one of those ambiguously fantastic novels in which it's never quite clear whether the magic is taking place in reality or in the minds of the characters.The 'action' is definitely more metaphysical and mental than physical- Anwrel's struggle with Pan takes place mainly in agonised conversations and soul-searching.
Interesting and significantWhile not Whitehead's best work, his distinction between two modes of perception is groundbreaking and highly significant for anyone interested in aesthetics, art, and culture.
Highly recommended, in these trying times of blatant propaganda spewage.
Alfred North whitehead is one of my intellectual heros.This book was interesting, but I was hoping for more of Alfred the mathematician to come out.Many of his ideas could have benefited from clarification and more examples.Nevertheless, I think his ideas about symbolism and the nature of experience were very illuminating.
Interesting and well written, it's a bit confusing though as Les Faux-monnayeurs is often completely different from what's described here.
I think it is important and good to see the creative process and the struggle that most often comes with trying to make a good piece and as someone who -attempts to- write-s it's also very comforting.I think it is true for me also that I begin with a certain idea and when I'm finished, even if I may get to the point I wanted to reach, my character's have generally taken me on a very different road than that that I expected.
Only liked one poem in the whole book and even then my like isn't very strong.
I wasn't fond of the overall organization of the book.
Not as profound as what I was expecting, based on his other writing.
The protagonist in this book made me nervous.
Probably the best French surrealist novel that I've read.
I believe the most beautiful text of surrealism.
Sometimes I can’t tell whether it’s the author or me, the reader, who cools down with the second book in a series.Still worth the read and has a valuable message but it’s a story of fiction all the same and this one lacks the structure needed to carry a readers interest through.
I enjoyed all six books of this series.The are mind expanded and I have refereed back to them on many occasions.They are a permanent members of my library and I recommend them to anyone looking for who and what they are.
Another great storyI have learned a lot about ancient civilizations by reading this book.The story is easy to follow and understand.Highly recommended for anyone interested in the mystical.
this series of books are an amazing ride.so interesting, so enlightening.you MUST read them!
Young Anne published in 1927 is Dorothy Whipple's first novel.A lovely coming of age story that is based on Dorothy's own first twenty years of life.Funny and heart breaking, a must read for all Dorothy Whipple fans.
Quite lovely.
Possibly my favourite Whipple to date!Why Persephone Books haven't re-released this yet I have no idea!It is utterly charming (as all her books are!) and made me laugh out loud and cry in turn.
A lovely read.It felt like a period novel written today, so it was wonderful to remember that Dorothy Whipple’s modern-feeling insights into women’s lives are actually completely of their time.I’m off to find more of her work!
Her first novel, so not as accomplished as her later work.Many of the same themes, young women dissatisfied with their lives, a distain for social climbers, the emergence of women as a new class of workers and consumers in WWI and between the wars.
Cezar Petrescu was a very prolific romanian author, but there are few works that stand out with "Intunecare" taking the lead on my opinion.It is a novel about the horrible effects of war against humans and how can they decay.As any great novel, it gently touches lots of areas such as love, betrayal, politics, social etc.Highly recommended!
Read all these as a kid.Fun to read again.Difference in language used since this was written in 1920's.Grey Dawn was one of my favorites.
Do remember this one, loved it!
In my recent reaquaintance with his writings and life, chiefly through The Sunnybank Memorial group and their yearly gatherings at Sunnybank, I have decided to re-read the old Terhune classics.This book was written in decidedly non-politically-correct style, but possesses the old magic that draws out the dog-crazy youngster still within me.
These books are some of my all-time favorites.
Then I think I read 2 of the 6 "Jungle Novels" wch, according to a short description in the back of this bk, "describe the conditions of peonage and debt slavery under which the Indians suffered in Díaz's time." [ie: before the Mexican Revolution] These were extremely insightful political novels, as was "The Death Ship", & also GRIM - almost 'unbearable'.
There were parts of this novel that were plodding.However...there were parts of this novel that were pure literary brilliance - small, well written anecdotes and episodes that left me intrigued and wanting more.Not as good as "The Death Ship", but I'm not dissuaded from reading more of his work.
This Bruno guy is So interesting and his novelistic look into workers rights and the power of unionization in mid 20th century America-Mexico is great fun.People compare Traven to Steinbeck and I agree.A great story, cast of characters and larger meaningful searching all make a worthwhile read.
At times he explains the reasonings of his bosses, expands on the workings of the labor unions, and even adopts a critical stance toward his fellow laborers.His true neutrality, however, is best expressed by his accepting each one of his fellow humans purely the way they are.
traven is a fantastic storyteller, though i do not think this is his strongest effort.while his class sympathies are as evident here as in his other works, the cotton-pickers lacks some of the passion that pervades his other novels.
What more can one say than: “You are a self-deceiver and as such belong to the last generation.” Prose, magnificent, themes, Freudian pessimism, result; fabulous literature.
Really enjoyed it!It is fantastically ironic and seems to be realstic.A lot of fun reading that one!
This book is completely surpassed by Anthony Faulkes' New Introduction To Old Norse, but is still interesting for its historical value and is one of those quirky old oddities that must be owned.
Gordon's introduction to Old Norse remains a standard in the field.A well-selected anthology of prose and poetry (including Skaldic verse), with detailed notes, and a comprehensive grammar and glossary make this an ideal choice for beginning and intermediate readers.Check out the acknowledgements for a shout-out to Oxford don J.
I have an old edition of this book and it is a one of my treasured books.I read this book in junior high most likely and loved it.This is a great first-hand story about the earlier days of aviation and the triumph of mankind in conquering new frontiers and setting records.
This is a beautiful book.The story of Lindbergh's Atlantic flight told simply and shortly after, before his fame became unmanageable."We" refers to he and his plane.If you see the plane in Washington now, their accomplishment, pilot and plane, is virtually inconceivable.
I first read "La Beauté sur la Terre" in its original French version a few years ago.I am impressed by how this translation is transcribing this effect so well.Michelle Bailat-Jones seems to have immersed herself in this narrative with her full writer's sensitivity to be able to provide us with this fresh and faithful translation.
It seems ahead of its time that way and I can't help wondering if Ramuz might be better known beyond Switzerland—like his contemporary Robert Walser—had he written urban rather than rural novels and stories.But perhaps he will become better known now in English thanks to this translation and, I hope, more to come.
The irony is that the novel he's written as a platform for this statement commits the very sin he's lamenting: Beauty on Earth gives us a vision of the feminine capable of little or nothing other than inspiring men to possessiveness and women to jealousy.
My favorite childhood book.
My copy of this book is a wreck, I have read it so often.My dad gave it to me, I can't remember if it was a birthday or Christmas gift, but regardless it's one of the best books I've ever been given.You just have to read a couple of pages and you fall right into Holmes and Watson's world; it's wonderful.
I don't know if anyone else does this, but in times of stress or when I have exceptional trouble falling asleep, I find myself re-reading a favorite book.One of these used to be my complete Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series but alas, it *is* in fact possible to read those books too many times.
What first got me hooked on reading.[That sounds corny, like 'Hooked on Phonics' or something...]Either way, I found a seriously abridged and illustrated version of a few stories when I was in 3rd grade.And I've never looked back.Hands down my favorite reads ever.
Suffice to say I am glad I finally came to my senses.It is all here, every Sherlock Holmes story ever penned by Arthur Conan Doyle.With the exception of the novels which I read straight through once I had started them, the balance of the case files I read in between other books.
Phew… I finished this whole thing in twelve days (except for The Hound of the Baskervilles which I had read before).As soon as I finished a story I was immediately hungry for more.What struck me the most was how close many of the adaptations are to the original stories.
Doyle actually went to the trouble of thinking up brilliant things for Holmes to do instead of just making everyone else in the stories stupid as a lot of writers do.The second is the way Doyle handled Holmes and Watson's relationship.
I often struggle to determine how many stars to give many books, especially modern ones which often come highly touted.For family reading do not miss The White Company.I looked forward to my runs with Sherlock very much over the last few months.
In which we learn that Sherlock Holmes turns to a seven percent solution of cocaine for mental stimulation in the absence of a case on which to work, much to the chagrin of Dr. Watson.Sherlock Holmes reveals that he is a master of disguise and we learn more of the workings of the Baker Street Irregulars.
Time does not change great literature This was completely entertaining and no matter how old you are it's still great to read over the ones you enjoyed the first time.Several I had not remembered reading.I bought this book at special price from here:https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Sherl...
I was so sad when I finished this book.Nothing new to read ever again about Sherlock Holmes ...hmmmm *sigh*
"You will understand directly."Two days later, I came down to breakfast to discover my dear friend, Sherlock Holmes, dressed as a goldfish."Ah Watson," he greeted me.
This book is nothing short of brilliant.Arthur Conan Doyle is a master writer; there never was a dull moment in every story, and there are only a handful of characters that I would love as dearly as I love Sherlock and Watson.
It'll probably take me a lifetime between reading other books, but the target is set!So it doesn't make sense for me to read it like one complete book either.
This time period also corresponds with an interesting concept of nihilism which proposes the question if men with superhuman abilities have the right to live above the moral code.Though these stories are basically identical in plot, I am entertained as much as when I first read Hound of the Baskervilles.
absolutely fantastic
A must have for Every Lodge.
Charming.
Man, I love Halliburton.No one has or had a vision like him, he can find the magic in everything.This should be a companion piece to The Odyssey or at least get a paper back to read while you travel Greece.
In fact I never heard one laughing at all.But including even Venus, I think goddesses would be a deadly bore after a week or two.
Halliburton cleverly weaves his quests, quasi-pilgrimage with moments of the Homer's classic and sometimes blends the two into humorous anecdotes.Strongly recommend this book to all who love adventure, humor and Homer's classic, not to mention traveling vicariously through Richard Halliburton's gallivanting through the Mediterranean!
Richard Halliburton is certainly one of the most interesting "travel writers" I've had the pleasure of reading.Really wonderful reading -- especially in the first few chapters, where his adventures are particularly hilarious.
Everyone needs to read at least one Richard Halliburton book.Halliburton was an explorer in the 20s and 30s, he died while on one of his travels.Reading his books you get a taste of a time long gone, when the world was not as small as it is now.
I'm afraid I never finished the book (it had to be returned before we moved).I think I will try it again after I have read The Odyssey.Since Halliburton was following the path of Ulysses, I think I would get more out of it knowing more than just the Cliff's Notes verion of the story.
Halliburton was a famous band popular travel writer of the time.This book details his attempts to retrace the travels of Odysseus, even finding the Cyclop's cave.Halliburton was definitely a gay romantic (in the broadest sense of the term), which makes this not a book for the hard-boiled .
A Another wonderful tale where Richard Halliburton follows the tale of the Odyssey and goes everywhere Ulyssess did--brilliant!
The majority of the book covers parts of French colonial Africa that are now the modern Central African Republic, Congo-Brazzaville, Chad, Gabon and Cameroon rounded out by some short visits to other West African ports while in transit.
This is an interesting document.Problems with porters, local chiefs and sheiks, fevers, cooks and the French companies extracting rubber from the dirt poor peoples of the region.It also sheds a light onto the nuances of racism in the colonial world.
“Travels in the Congo” is an artifact, a strange viewfinder showing hard to access parts of Central Africa circa 1925 from the perspective of a very oddly chosen “special envoy of the Colonial Ministry.” Andre Gide (a controversial, avant-garde French playwright) is shuttled around in a Tipoye (a porter-conveyed chair about which he is often wringing his hands with guilt, “As a general rule we use our tipoyes very little, as much because we like walking as to spare our wretched bearers.”), on horseback, in various boats and sometimes, to his credit, he walks on his own feet.
This was enjoyable both as travel writing and as a historical document.Gide writes poetically about the scenery, the people and animals that he encounters.He documents the abuses of the colonists with no little despair and he is never less than fair in his dealings with the Africans.
Andre Gide has a passion for humanity, nature, language and literature, as reflected in the diary of his nine month trip in 1925-26 across the Congo.He is quite forward thinking (for the time period) in his views on Africans, in his relentless pursuit of local justice and in his premonition of the future for the continent.
I read it in Slovene...good itinerary.I also own a copy of this book in Slovene.
I have a theory that Anita Loos was a nom de plume for Dorothy Parker, or someone otherwise affiliated with the Algonquin Club of New York.Many of these anecdotes seem to be exaggerated private jokes in and amongst the female literati about less-intellectually driven individuals.If read in this context, the book is sharp.
2.5 stars Not as entertaining as Blondes.
Not as good as "Blondes." I, mean, really, really not as good.
Truly amusing and just as silly as the first book, this is the story of Dorothy "Dot" Shaw, as related by her friend Lorelei with all the naive judgements and misspellings you'd expect.Dot's story is interesting and involves carnivals, Detention homes, the Follies, domestic abuse, Paris divorces and the mob.
The sequel to Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes focuses on Lorelei’s best friend, Dorothy.The same all-knowing, biting satire pervades this book, but Lorelei’s voice doesn’t click quite as well when telling someone else’s story.It’s still a fun read, but it doesn’t have the same magic as Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.
Why does she just ride on by in her carriage?Why has Sir Robert become so wild-eyed lately?Why has he given his sister’s dog away to a neighbourhood innkeeper?Why does he go to the old crypt at night, and who is that man that he meets there?Why have burnt human bones been found in the furnace at Shoscombe?Holmes decides to investigate on the spot.
Nice.
nope.
An unpredictably excitable plot.The story, for a major part, covers a horse race, though it gets quite spooky towards the end.To all readers who appreciate a well-written mystery story, I recommend this short story.
Story is not good but not what I have expected either.
The eleventh short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle.A mystery at a horse racing stable.Interesting and entertaining.
Not much to say, it's Mencken.It's brilliant.Surprised no one's bothered referencing his essay "The Cult of Hope" in discussing Obama.
Just great.
I actually have a lovely old two-volume 1920s edition given to me by a friend.The literal mustiness of the pages makes the intermittently musty bits more palatable.Some of it's still sharp.He was a tack, that Mencken.
Endearingly Nietzschean, for an American; fantastic humor, rhetoric, and observations
Good writing; mostly apposite disdain; even the nonsense is good nonsense.
Is there a more perfect poem than "Patterns?"
I liked that it was organized by style because I'm drawn to certain styles that I read closely and was able to skim other sections.
The second is a personal favourite.Patterns - Poem by Amy LowellI walk down the garden-paths, And all the daffodils Are blowing, and the bright blue squills.I walk down the patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown.In Summer and in Winter I shall walk Up and down The patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown.
DIscovering her was lifechanging.SHe knows how to craft a poem.Quite incredible.While she's not the most clever and not the most revolutionary, she knows how to use rhyme and rhythm well, and how to make you feel things.Serious things.She was a total badass.
It's like some vast ocean somewhere, I'm not invited (I don't want to open the door again to ponder if I felt so bad for the abandoned wife because I'm also not pretty, so also not going to see where the Cynthias lie in exotic sheets of some fleshy bliss blissful owing to you don't have to think about it).I don't know if the little girl ever lives outside the glass.
self indulgent piece of crap
It doesn't have quite so much of his wonderful weather and sky descriptions, but is as based on paradox as ever, as full of delightful characters, and is better on man/woman relationships than usual - here he is with a passage between one of his couples:"People are often very misleading when they talk about themselves; even when they are perfectly honest, and even modest, in talking about themselves.
Due to appear in the play as a troubadour, he pulls out when the strike is called, precipitating an attempt to have 'him taken down a peg' by Olive Ashley, an unconventional upper class girl who appears to dislike him, but of course loves him.
A weird story, with moments of rich profundity, as was Chesterton's habit in his fiction.This was my favorite bit: "For worries are never anything but worries, however we turn them round.But a sorrow is always a joy reversed."
Reading a Chesterton novel is like sampling an expensive wine or eating a rich dessert; it must be taken slowly, and every bit must be savored.This was one of the best books I've read in a while.Combining Wodehousian hyjinx with Cervantian flair, and a style that is all his own, Chesterton creates a unique and fulfilling novel that must be read more than once to be fully appreciated.
Chesterton with his love of medievalism, matrimony and puns.*sigh* His puns are perfect.His characters are lovable - against all odds.His favourite argument was turning things inside out.He turns his readers inside out, too, but somehow it always feels like the right side is up.
Initially, it might feel that you are sinking into a cake, a huge complicated cake of different layers of sponges, fruits, creams and you may feel it challenging to keep track of the various kinds of threads of issues, skilfully interwoven to make compelling reading.
This story makes very uncomfortable...
That was surprisingly good!
I have read it about every five years since first discovering it as a teenager.Have you ever been high on anticipation, feeling great in your own skin, only to arrive at the "party" and where you proceed to crumble from within..panic attack courtesy of Virgina Woolf.
such feelings in a book. it was a good read!
Interesting diction and voice particularly with regards to themes of solipsism.
One of Burroughs better novels.The inherent racism of the day is evident, but he treats the Indians with great sympathy.Whether accurate or not, I cannot say, but it is a darned good read.
Sure, this is about Apaches in the Southwest, but most of the clichés that apply to the Tarzan, Barsoom, and Pellucidar books are here.Spoiler in the rest of this paragraph: Perhaps the most inexcusable plotting shift comes with the death of Shaz-Dijiju's girlfriend.
It is formulaic, but I like the forumula.
Great book, good read, looking forward to book 2 in the series.
Another great fast paced action book by Burroughs.You always get caught up in these and swept along.recommended
I would like this in the Kindle Edition, when it comes available.
Oldie, but a goodie.
I read a lot but this book made me feel uneasy because I wasn't sure I was getting the intended message and for that I feel annoyed.
But once the story starts, there is much for that younger audience to appreciate: a young boy and girl and their puppy for protagonists, a lovable but bungling Snerg, Gorbo, who will do whatever it takes to protect those children, a witch, a (not so) reformed ogre, knights, kings, castles, a beautiful princess, multiple feasts, an incorrigible jester, armies, dangerous escapes, etc.
A fun romp.
forgotten classic
J.R.R. Tolkien loved this book and read it to his children, and it's easy to see some of the inspiration for The Hobbit in its pages, from Gorbo's character growth to the peace and new understanding found between peoples where violent conflict seemed inevitable.
Most EnjoyableFun and Delightful.This light little book is an enjoyable read.Recommend it for adults and children.Enjoy it at bedtime or on the beach.
A entertaining story in the vein of the Chronicles of Narnia.The story follows to children in their adventures int he Land of Snergs (kind of a cross between Dwarves and Goblins) and beyond.How ever the story doesn't seem to have a specific direction and bounces from unrelated adventure to unrelated adventure.
A very merry story about the adventures of two children, it filled me with smiles and I would love to befriend the jester!
Ogres, witches, Dutchmen soldiers, and Snergs.Lots of adventure here.This book was apparently a favorite of the Tolkien family and after reading it with my 9-year old I can see why!
Funny and sweet, if somewhat meandering.
This is a fun book
They had a quote from Tolkein that "this was his source book for the Hobbit" and that he'd read it to his own children.Okay, says me, we'll try it.My kids loved this book.And my husband loved reading it to them.
The story begins on a remote Island where a Miss Watkyns harbors unwanted and neglected children.Joe and Sylvia, two of Miss Watkyns harbored children, become restless and decide to run off to avoid more punishment.So I suggest you read this for yourself and then share it with your children or grand-children.
A sweet, but witty, story that my three daughters loved.Elements from the Snergs certainly inspired Tolkien and Lewis.The writing style prefigures Lemony Snicket in some ways.Recommended for imaginative lovers of fantasy and fairy tales.
It's a children's book, but an amusing and classic one.
I loved this book I can't beleive I never heard about it until I joined GoodReads.
No matter from what angle He started, He came back to this fact, that He entrusted the reconstruction of the world, not to wealth or caste or power or learning, but to the better instincts of the race—to the nobler ideals and sentiments of the people—to love, which is the mover of the will and the dynamic force of action.”Ultimately, her faith regards loving action as a prime mover of the world.
So, being into disability theory I decided to read it sooner than later.First off this is much more of a philosophy book than an autobiography.So, no, this isn’t an inspirational autobiography, but it does dig very deep into her strong prerogative of her spiritual sense and her unshaken relationship with Christianity and God. Well worth the read though you’ll be brushing up on loads of history to follow through some of the points.
She tried to get money from Harding's siblings, but they were not inclined to support Britton's daughter, so she wrote this book to make some money.My only regret is that it does not follow Miss Britton's nor her daughter's life after the publication of the book.
Harding would never make it today...wouldn't be able to hide the mistresses and the illegitimate child.Nan Britton sounds like a very immature and still obsessed woman, which I suppose is why so many didn't believe her story.Interesting read.
They had a daughter (Elizabeth Ann) the year before Harding was elected President of the United States.Fascinating read, lots of overblown prose and lots of mushy sentimentality, but a fascinating look at a 100 year old political scandal.
An eye-opening read!I couldn't put the book down for the first half.However the second half tended to random stories and later the reason why the author decided to publish the book.It's definitely the first "kiss and tell" book.
It felt like the story was all over the place.I understand it's a mystery, but it was sometimes too confusing to follow.No detailed explanation at the end.
In this book, the beautiful Jane Leith is induced by her father, John Leith, to marry Peter Clifton, a young man who is very rich, but who seems to have had a shadowy past.One of Peter Clifton's best friends is the Harley Street physician, Mr. Donald Cheyne Wells.
Really interesting book with unexpected end.
Although this lacks the lyrical quality of many other tales of Robin Hood, this compilation of the many stories of the outlaw and his followers is well worth reading by any who may be interested in his story.
This book is great because I was curious about what would happen nect when Robin Hood shot his arrow to the apple on his son's head!
Who didn't love Robin Hood as a youngster?
A classic....I just couldn't get the Disney music out of my head as I read this.
4.5 out of 5
This is an awesome version of Robin Hood!The illos are great, including some of the classics by Pyle, some glitzy old hollywood images and some old medieval manuscript type images.Another favorite in this vein is Robin Hood: His Life and Legend by Bernard Miles and illustrated by Victor Ambrus.
Although I'm from Nottingham and have a soft spot for Robin - I had obviously never read a version of the stories (which surprised me).I've obviously only seen the movie versions!
No wonder the legend of Robin Hood has lived for so long.This is a good story.The reader has to wade through some more difficult and old-fashioned words, however, it wasn't too bad.It might even be good for us to learn a little more about our native tongue.
I loved this book.I've always loved the stories about Robin Hood (the Disney cartoon was one of my favorite movies as a little girl, and also the source of my first crush), and this reminded me of why.The stories were fascinating.The art was also beautiful.
This is a fun vintage book full of cowboys, indians, romance, and action.Written in 1927 by Mourning Dove, it was the first novel published by a Native American woman, and she did it as a migrant farm worker typing on her rickety old typewriter at night.
It was a fun throwback read.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.This is a love story and, yes, it is predictable but it is still a great read.I respect and admire Mourning Dove and the fact that she is the first Native American woman to have published a novel.Her writing style is fun and free-spirited and it was a great adventure to read this book.
At page 76 I choose not to finish reading this book.I was eager to read the first novel published by a native American woman but found the narrative voice hard to consistently identify as hers for the many insertions and edits and influence of her collaborator, Lulus Virgil McWhorter.
You know her 'mentor' helped Cogewea "write" her book, and even she acknowledges that she needed him to get it published.There is a reason the author had to guarentee publishing costs, this book might be history,but enjoyable.....not so much
At the same time, it's really fascinating to see this pre-Renaissance critique of settler colonialism and white supremacy.Could pair well with pre-Chicano/a lot novels like CABALLERO and SQUATTER AND THE DON, too, for how they navigate a place of women of color, white men, marriage, and progress.
These cups were displayed in the Red Baron’s bedroom back in Germany.Unfortunately for the German ace, he did not get to enjoy his cup display as he, himself, was shot down before he could kill his 81st victim, a young Australian who was fleeing for his life.
An entirely welcome and engaging review of one of history's most celebrated; talented, and lethal aviators who stood at the forefront of technological advance which was used to recapture the spirit of a supposedly chivalrous past.
The people interviewed were numerous, his mother, his fellow flyers, several Allied pilots whom he had shot out of the skies, his commanding officers, others and his letters home.At the time of the writing the German and Allied records where open for a detailed search.Both sides would drop streamered cans containing info on the condition of the their downed pilots.
I received a kindle version of the book courtesy of Net Galley and the publisher with the expectation that I would write a review that I would share on my blog, Net Galley, Goodreads, Amazon, Linked In, Facebook, Twitter and Google Plus.This is a reprint of a biography of Baron von Richthofen that was written shortly after World War I.
This is a fascinating insight into one of Germany's greatest pilots.His drive and love of flying made him the hero he became; there was only one way his legend was going to end.Great book, bitted and bobbed a little but I thoroughly enjoyed it.
This book was outstanding.It held me spellbound all the way through it.The writer did a perfect job of building you up to a high level o fEnthusiasm then keeps you there and brings you back to reality slowly .outstanding.Thanks for sharing this book.Randall
This book was written shortly before Hitler's rise to power and is very in-depth concerning not only the activities of the Baron but his victims as well.It was still a time of respect when the book was written.The research that was done was amazing.
Was given this book as a child, this character is hard to hate......
Always and forever good.
It's one of the great books in the Just William series, of which I hope to read more of in the future.Filled with laughter and hilarious in most places, it turns out I quite enjoyed it.Hope you enjoy it also!
This is the second volume in a series of five books I believe which Powell did an incredible job of compiling all the information from a large number of books written by Annie Besant and C W Leadbeater as well as occasional tidbits from Blavatsky and other authors.
A must for those interested in understanding human nature at a deeper level.
Although not all are mentioned in Goodreads, I recommend ordering the Quest book editions.You can get them on Amazon or from Quest Books.First published in 1927 this book covers the astral body, its constitution and function, its use during sleep, and its use after death.It also covers the astral plane and its inhabitants.
What on this plane is a nomenon in the mind's eye, becomes a phenomenon in the astral world that is objective.If a person has over come certain character flaws, and has some knowledge of esoteric things, their stay in the astral world can be as little as 1 to 2 years, with some people by passing it altogether.
Interest concepts..I don't believe everything in the book but found it very interesting.
I was curious to read about this man I'd heard of, but knew nothing.It gives an excellent view of politics in all its hurly-burly but focuses more on the man Disraeli rather than on the politics in which the man was such an accomplished participant.
Although not as comprehensive as one would expect from the life of an important British politician, one does get to know some about his personality and the trials this man overcame to succeed in a very hostile environment.Nicely written, though somewhat romantic, but that is par for biographies dating to the 1920's.Worth a read, mainly as an introduction to Disraeli.
Great book, deplorable man.
I would recommend this book for a historic read on the Victorian era of England and how one man was such an influencer on so many diverse arenas.
AM gives a vivid sense of Dizzy's romantic nature, idealistic mind and practical intelligence.This made it difficult to get a real sense of Dizzy's development.AM tracks his subject more through his developing principles than through chronology.I will definitely read more on Disraeli and perhaps even wear primroses on 4/19.
DISRAELI: A Picture of the Victorian Age.Maurois (1885-1967) was a prolific French writer – primarily of biographies, and published over two dozen books during his lifetime.In this biography, he manages to accurately place Disraeli within the context of the Victorian Era and the politics that existed at the time.
Its strength and its weakness are the author's artistic license, which give the book the feel of a novel at times, rather than a dry collection of dates and facts.
I found this book interesting but it has been years it would deserve a reread to be fair to it.
Despite being a translation, the book is engaging, with just enough wit and bon mots to make reading it a pleasure.
At any rate, it was a fantastic look at another time (Victorian Age) and political system (British Parliament) which combined political maneuvers with a true romantic background story and it captivated me.After his wife (Mary Anne) dies from old age (and cancer), Disraeli begins going through their effects in preparation for moving out of her ancestral home which must be passed on to its inheritor:“Every fortnight for thirty-three years, Mary Anne had cut her husband’s hair, and every time the harvest had been garnered in a small sealed packet.
This book is a true testament of what can be accomplished in spite of extraordinary odds.
Flowery and well-written biography of Disraeli, the dandy/prime minister.
A good overview of esoteric doctrines - particularly pertaining to the idea of a spiritual centrality.All in all worth the read, but more so as a window into the esoteric theories of the late 19th century than as a practical guide - for which there are many superior volumes extant today.
This one offers more splendid selections and seasonal work, too.It's fun to read a collection of poetry about each month of the year for the "New Year" (okay, I'm a few weeks late, but it was checked-out at the library!) I admit that I wasn't really impressed with the poetry, but perhaps some of the original charm was lost in the English translation.
Poignant AutobiographyWell written, poignant autobiography.Not a lot of "action" but good descriptions of the psychological effects of combat.Definitely would recommend.
Excellent account of the war in the trenches during the battle of the Somme by a British officer during World War I.
ReadNot to bad I would readily read on a train bound for any were as some of this is a drudge
The edition I read was published under the pseudonym "Mark VII" in 1927.Very, very graceful and elegiac account of experiences from July 1916 to January 1917, when Plowman was wounded and sent back to England.Plowman was a poet, and it shows!Very hard to find this book (thank you, interlibrary loan)!
HarrowingAn unusual account of a Junior Officer fighting in the mud of WW1 in 1916.You wouldn’t joke about mud in the trenches again.He set out as a pacifist and ended up fighting although he doesn’t really explain that.The text often feels very immediate and although written in 1928 retains that quality.
I was prepared to really dislike this book, but read it anyway for my book club.I came away really liking it because it talks about the absurdities of war.Real interesting insights.
And I think this is a tool of bringing us closer to the characters because, with them, we also can sense what it is like to feel snow against our faces, to ski, if we have been so fortunate, through a winter forest, to lie on a warm rock in autumn, to shudder when bed blankets freeze to the wall, etc.There are few essential characters in the books although there are numbers of persons who appear in it and take roles at one time or another.
Somehow I got distracted while reading this fabulous book.I will return to it.Undset creates an entire world deep characters.
While she experienced success in her native Norway with her early modern novels, it his her pair of Medieval epics, "Kristin Lavransdatter" and "Master of Hestviken" (the latter was published as "Olav Audunsson" in Norway; its English translation was given the the title seen above.
This is a novel in 4 parts, and I have only read part 1 "The Axe" so far (separate review).But I will definitely come back and finish the other three parts.So far, I do not like this as well as Kristin Lavransdatter, but it is definitely worth tackling if you are a fan of Undset's work.
Consists of 4 novels - The Axe, The Snake Pit, In the Wilderness and The Son Avenger.The novels trace the life of the hero Olav and his family.The middle two books have much less action and more reflective, building up to climax.
Sigrid is an AMAZING epic tale weaver--this series is like the "Kristin Lavransdatter" series--so incredibly freaking GOOD.I NEVER get tired of her writing!!I spend my free time on a quest for books like these.Elusive....
And his heart was exalted in longing that his life also might rest in Gods hand like one of these golden links - a reckoning in which there was no fault.
Pure diamond. A must read.
Nerantula by Panait IstratiIf I make a short, mean comment- strange threesome turns into an even more awkward… foursomeIn Greek, nerantula is supposed to mean a small bitter orange tree.And in this work, it the nickname (I guess) of the heroine.I must say that these notes refer to an adaptation for the National Radio and not to the unabridged story.At times, the storyline seemed a bit weird, even if it is perhaps just modern and fresh.There is a kind of threesome which turns into an even more difficult to envisage foursome.That is -If we are not taking into account the exceptional, larger than life profile of Nerantula.She loves two boys- one is the story teller- Marko and the other is Epaminonda.She is very open and dashing about it, when he tells Marko that she loves him and another boy.The two rivals become friends as well, even if they dispute the big prize in various ways.In one test of their supposed worthiness and perhaps manhood, they are supposed to cross the Danube.Nerantula is trying to prevent Marko from taking part in this competition, because she feels he would not make it.All in all, she has a very good heart and comes across not as a feeble, undecided girl, who cannot make up her mind.In fact, the opposite may be the case.Nerantula seems to have such a great, generous heart that she gives her affection away and is unable to limit herself to just one man…or boy.But her generosity becomes more than apparent, even proved beyond a shadow of a doubt, when she forgives Epaminonda.The latter attacks her with a knife, hurt and jealous.Unwilling to share her affection, he decides that enough is enough and in a violent attack wounds the woman he loves.When the authorities deal with the case, the victim is unwilling to accuse him and even says:-	My beloved Epaminonda, why didn’t you tell me you love me so muchI guess I was thinking that Epaminonda has nailed it.Instead of provoking hostility, he managed to convince his victim that he is the one, the man who loves beyond reason.But, Nerantula is unpredictable above all else and disappears.The two friends look for her in vain, until they find her in a whore house- if I got it right- caring for another man she fell for.This third rival is in fact a case of charity more than love, for Nerantula found him paralyzed in the hospital.The man is a proof of what positive psychology is arguing and has tested in multiple cases.When an accident happens, resulting in serious injury, the victim tends to suffer for a few months and have a lower level of life satisfaction.But people tend to bounce back in a phenomenon called -	Hedonic adaptationIt works unfortunately in the other way too.We adapt to the good things that happen_ I have two great macaws, which are the most fantastic creatures on earth.Not only I adapted to having them, but right now I am shooting a water pistol of them because they are annoying and really, really loud.I stopped about half way through to let you read and find about the other part of a very good tale.
A good story but I cannot give 5 stars to it because I did not really like the green-eyed girl (too perfect and naive) whereas the english blue-eyed lady was far more interesting and would have been a great challenge to Lupin.What I found old-fashioned was that Arsene Lupin can be a thief but is offended when a lady is...Fortunately the cunning side of Lupin having fun of his ennemies and the poetry of the love story saves the book!
A crime, a secret, a hidden treasure, a young lady with green eyes...a very typical Arsène Lupin novel, with every ingredient for me to like it.This time solving a mystery, but he still manages to baffle a police inspector."T'as du feu, Rodolphe?" xD Loved it.
The most endearing novel that I've read.My FAVORITE book, no contest.Old-fashioned charm with subtle romance and lots of thrill.Too bad I don't have my own copy.It's so frustrating, I could almost cry.
This was not one of my favorite books by Hill.The story was cute, but I didn't like the main guy a lot.He seemed to come to faith a little to conveniently right when he wanted to get with the girl.
Way to be relevant almost a hundred years after going into print!!!Thankfully Ray (as she is later called) has a young man named Chan (ok it threw me too) to act as rescuer.Lots of adventure ensues that takes you across the country in the 1920s and all the way to a lunatic asylum (so not politically correct, but this is the way things were back then.
Enduring love story is accurate for this bookI am a huge fan of Grace L.Hill.No surprise that I like this book as well.Has a lot of the things I like in a good read: mystery, adventure, and a sense of hope that true love is out there.
Some of her books are really good, some ok and some that aren't so good.I happen to like her style, although I do have to be in the right frame of mind for it.According to Goodreads, I last read it 3 years ago.I liked the rescue, and then continual escapes (and another rescue) that happens.
Just had a hard time getting into it.It was cheesy, preachy, and pretty slow.It was clean and had some fun ideas I must admit though I had to skim through some of it.Maybe just the mood I was in but not one I will be reading again.
I love her books.
One of the best books Grace ever wrote!!
this book was written in the 1930's...i totally love the way women used to dress....the funny way they said things back then...all the slang....i just love this particular author.
Seems like a bargain to me.
Obviously not his best work. ;)
Pretty but monotonous and, except for one poem which is only a marginal exception, almost instantly forgettable.
James Joyce can be funny!
Frankly, this was godawful.Only James Joyce freaks will have any interest, and they'll be dismayed.Go read "Oxen of the Sun" a fiftieth time and don't bother plunking down the $20 to score a beat-up copy of the one edition available to mortal men.
Nothing of too much interest here, almost instantly forgettable.
I have a character named Plumly featured in future Ebooks of my children's fantasy series.I'm honoring Ruth Plumly Thompson, who carried on with the Oz books after L.Frank Baum's death.The Scraps storyline was excellent in this one.
Like any sea voyage, long stretches of the doldrums broken up by some interesting landfalls...
So romantic!This is not a mystery in the sense of dead bodies or stolen pearls, but it is the mystery of an identity and a missing man.Yes there are suggestions along the lines we see in William Smith, but this is primarily a sweet romance, and very enjoyable too.Highly recommended.
Another lovely read.
This is my Mum’s book and not something I would normally read but the text on the back sounded interesting so I gave it a try.Really enjoyed it!Loved the suspense and intrigue the whole way through and a bit of romance too.Really good enjoyable book.
Not a mystery, per se, and I wish some things were better explained — but I enjoyed it on the whole.
Maybe 3 stars.This 'interlude' is from the perspective of Jon as a young boy.I wish I had grown up with only a few hours of lessons from a visiting Mademoiselle and then the freedom to play the rest of the day!
This book is amazing.I don't think any other book I've ever read has done better at creating such deep, believable, consistent, interesting characters.But I think that's my only complaint about this book, and it's not a big one.
A beautiful end to the Forsyte saga, and to the Forsyte family, as a up-and-coming, possessive middle class.
This is an amazingly delightful and witty book; a wonderful discovery that my Grandfather led me to.A truly lovely book that I will enjoy reading again in a few years.If only I could find a copy of the silent film made around the same time the book was written, I would love to see that.
This book should be, along with Beau Geste and Beau Ideal, required reading for all boys in every school in the world.It strains the importance of the two for being essential elements of being a good soldier, or Beau Sabreur which translates into literally "good swordsman," hence the name.
I wasn't even aware that it was the first of a trilogy, so when that came to light I was excited, but this book wasn't nearly as exciting.That might be because of my advancing years, but the whole thing was very confusing.
This book was written in 1926 and it is a very good adventure story concerning France’s colonial empire in Africa.It is tough to follow the geography which when I’m reading such as adventure story of historical fiction, I like to understand where the general locations are and the story is taking place.
This book is incredible!The author’s sarcasm comes through his writing in the best way and he had me laughing out loud many times.Just when the reader thinks everything is wrapping up, the author throws in another plot twist on the last page just for kicks.
And as a footnote to the brief review below, my 10 (now 13) did read all of these books and LOVED them as have all the young men I've recommended them to.Love the humor.
The writing borders on a farce or what was once called a screwball comedy if it was a film & its alright in that respect as a change of pace for me but in truth Im probably revealed at the get-out clause of the change as above.....
well i liked this book a lot it was great i recommend reading beau geste first that is another great book.
i don't undersdtand what is writing in this book ,but i read all the book i don't recommend this book, i don't know if the transaltion to arabic language isn't good
This books deals with the claims of the school of psycho-analysis that the Oedipus complex is at the origin of culture.Initially, he proposes the notion of a "nuclear family complex", of which Oedipus is only a specific case, that depends on the social organization and culture of the people in question.
I've just browsed through the book and find some parts that are concerned with qualitative research interesting.But all in all it is not beneficial to me.I left it unfinished.
nice and short
I really enjoyed this book and even better to be read after My Life and Work by Henry Ford.
Some timeless insights (and hard common sense) on the traits and thinking patterns that make a good owner operator type CEO.
But once the story started everything started to make sense and I found myself really enjoying it towards the end.The early automobile industry reminds me a lot of Silicon Vally today.I think this book is a great read for anyone in the tech industry or who wants to be a CEO some day.
A different relling of the early Judaochristian creation mythology, this expands the stories and gives a broader picture.
It's interesting...not scripture but soo interesting.
Cassirer's project in this book is to baptize Bruckhardt's narrative in Hegelianism and create a more robust intellectual history of Renaissance thought.Cassirer renders abstract concepts and arguments surprisingly accessible.Even if some corrections have been made to his text over time, it still holds up as an impressive overview of a critical period in intellectual history.
This is his first novel, written when he was 21, and is so much fun to read that it's almost a shame.I loved every word.My first Patrick Hamilton book was "Slaves of Solitude", also set in a boarding house, with darker themes, but also lots of humor.
He manages to craft a page-turner out the lives of 7-8 Londoners who live in a house together and are BEYOND ordinary, it's almost painful to imagine these people in real life.I also am just desperately in love this period of time; Hamilton makes sure to cover pre-WWI, WWI, and post-WWI through the eyes of his characters.
It goes without saying that to readers of almost 100 years in the future, stories like these are a glimpse into a bygone era of which we cannot know anything except through reading such books, and to us they are essential.
Hamilton's 1st novel, written when he was 21 - brilliantly sets out the themes he was to write about in subsequent novels.
What a lovely read so far...funny
At his best, it's like a timeless classic British sitcom (Diary of a Nobody meets a better-run Fawlty Towers), complete with a playful, meddling narrator.He does lower middle class and working class smalltalk with more empathy than the best Eastenders writer.That remembered moment where Wildman junior doesn't return his father's searching look for approval.
Funny (ha ha), funny (odd), brilliant social comedy punctured by moments of real poignancy and emotion.Most surprisingly, as the plot of this book develops, it turns out to be a rallying call to the disempowered.I loved it.
I came to this recently, after having read a good deal of Patrick Hamilton, beginning with NYRB's Twenty Thousand Streets Under the Sky. I was delighted to locate the Black Spring Press 2008 Edition, along with Through a Glass Darkly, a Hamilton biography.My review consists simply of this: There is a finesse in this book, a seamless, a blend of domestic horror and absurdist comedy.
AddictedI'm so taken with Patrick Hamilton's writing I can scarcely approach the end of one of his books without worrying it'll be the last one I haven't yet read.He writes like Elizabeth Taylor (no, the novelist, not the actor) with a generous topping of (usually) gentle humour.
Once one of my favourite writers, but not as good as I remembered now I am older
Craven House was the first major novel by Patrick Hamilton and was published in 1926, and captures that moment when, following World War 1, the certainties of the Edwardian way of life eroded until English society was changed for ever.
The language of the book is very much of its time and some readers may find that difficult.Essentially a love story, the characters are all inhabitants of a boarding house in London.The characters have their individual foibles and the tension he creates amongst them as the story progresses gives this book a mannered pace.
This is Wilder before he matured as a writer, rather full of himself, but giving us a peek of the promise that would produce Our Town and Bridge of San Luis Rey. An interesting picture of high society "doing the European Tour" post-WWI, but not as engaging as it could be.
Holy cow. What an amazing writer.
They are rather ironically known as the Cabala.You wind up having to keep the hoi polloi away from the gates.Well, you might form a secret group of the "best people" (i.e. richest and most conservative) and talk incessantly, so seriously unserious.THE CABALA was Wilder's first novel.
A curious but interesting novel, terribly well written, just as its much more famous successor The Bridge of San Luis Rey. The narrator, ostensibly Wilder's alter ego, is a young American writer who gets to know a circle of socialites in Rome, 'the cabala'.
Underrated classic.
A young American goes to Italy and falls in with a group of powerful but eccentric people.The Bridge of San Luis and the 8th day are more accomplished works, but this still has some of those signature Wilder touches that I love.Absurd people do absurd things, and somehow they communicate the most basic and universal truths.
Love his language.Love his way of describing people in just a few phrases so you really understand them.Love the way the narrator is a character without ever revealing too much of himself.Interesting ending.Still thinking about its implications.
Nordic Deliciousness!Need to track down a copy of the U of Minn.reprint.
Also in keeping with the saga tradition, Eddison presents the story without a bias toward one character or another, which I think makes it easier for the reader to come to a moral decision about the story while yet appreciating the complexity of human interaction.
I am really digging these turn of the century writers who unearth the amazing Nordic tales- some of the most kick ass stories relayed with the most exquisite composition I have ever read.I encourage anyone with the slightest interest to chew on some of these masters of the tale telling.We need Styrbiorn the Strong in America.
More powerful writing from Eddison.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading about the life of Lincoln leading up to his election and presidency.Sandburg does a great job of telling the story, using letters, stories, and quotes of those who knew Lincoln best.It's interesting to think about if a person like Lincoln could get elected today.
This volume covers Lincoln's birth to 1854.Sandburg covers his childhood, the death of his mother and his fathers 2nd marriage to Sarah Bush who would be a constant in his life and a very close relationship.You start to understand Lincoln through his losses politically and relationships.
Fine
Good information.
A must read for Lincoln and Civil War fans!
Amazing Book! Truly just amazing!
Intriguing story about life as a man who falls for a gay hustler in Berlin in 1926.
I thought I'm on an Iceland binge....why not continue.Perhaps I wasn't in the right frame of mind, there was little of Iceland in it and mostly unpleasant characters.Not the book for me.
For every outpouring of dialectics that Steinn, the main character, makes up out of thin air, the author counterpoints with some small, ironic remark.Although I felt like skipping fifty pages or so of religious rambling, I feel nonetheless like I will want to revisit this book, as it's the type of read that changes with the reader.
I wrote a long review with quotes that got deleted.Incredibly bizzare book about sums it up.But I cannot resist giving this one quote after all.He wrote 60 books and this is one he wrote at 23, but publishing it (for the first time in English!) did him a huge disservice.
Read because I'm going to Iceland in the summer.I might try another of Laxness's books, but mainly because I wasn't the craziest over this one, and I am going to Iceland, after all.There are some real ferocious parts to the book, but they are much fewer than the philosophical and spiritual nonsense that we use to look into the protagonist.
Because I want to go to Iceland.And he understands how an utter ass can be the center of young girl's obsession.
Remembering how to see the light behind the visage of things.......in other words, some people don't seek beauty because they bring it.
4 1/2
I tried, I really did, but I found the earnest search for Absolutes and the national and emotional stereotypes too tiresome.
As if I could put into plain words how I felt in my heart that day in the summer when you left!*And I listened to the rain fall, and memories rained down in my mind.Everything that you say and do is beautiful and terrible.*I thank you, my love, for how you have allowed me to torment you.
I may have been as frustrated by some medieval Catholic saint-philosophers back in college as I was by The Great Weaver, but I doubt it.As much as you might want to scream in frustration and throw the book down, you also wanted to turn the page to find the next poetic jewel of philosophic wisdom or penetrating observation.
** I obtained this title due to Goodread's First Reads*** I enjoy a challenge of conquering a book that is considered a hard read.This book and I have been involved in a battle for quite some time, and well the book won.
Brilliantly telling line...15 pages of meandering on the soul's torments.Hilarious aside...12 pages on the failings of modern philosophy.Clever description...9 pages on Icelandic weather.And so forth.
Recognizably Laxness though spotty with some overlong digressions, but even in this first work the magic is there throughout.
A few holes in the story (like, why was no one more worried when their houses were broken into?!), but overall another excellent addition to the Dr Thorndyke series.
I think that you either like the intricate detail of a Thorndyke story or you don't.Normally written in the first person by more than one narrator and usually finished by Jervis, Thorndyke's Watsonesque sidekick these stories are written in quite old fashioned English even by standard of the period.
As so often in a Thorndyke novel there is a young woman in distress and murder in the air.Gray enlists Thorndyke's help to uncover a mystery of murder, theft and deception.Enjoyable although Thondyke's final account is most intricate and takes some unravelling to understand how the conclusion was reached.
Would you mind telling us exactly what happened?" pleads one of the main characters at the very end of this mystery, after Thorndyke has already explained it once in devastating detail.Well, shorter.All those confusing details aside, as far as I could tell these 2 really evil, immoral or amoral bad guys are Americans.
Unlike the last one, this one is back to the clueless protagonist needing Thorndyke to explain everything at the end.However, it was much more involving and much more complicated, so the ending explanation probably would have been needed either way!
Rider Haggard wrote, and completes the loosely linked quartet that began with "Allan and the Holy Flower," continued into "The Ivory Child" and then "The Ancient Allan." (A reading of these earlier books is recommended before going into this one.) In this final book, Quatermain again partakes of the taduki drug, as he did in the previous two novels, and gets to see a previous incarnation of his--when he was Wi, the leader of a small tribe during one of the Ice Ages.
Stretching across the aeons, he must have felt a desire for something greater--as it ran through all his works.Having spent the past two months reading through the Quatermain and Ayesha series, I can say I am surprised.Before reading him, I had dismissed Haggard as being something of a lightweight.
When he does, he goes back in time in a lucid dream like state and witnesses life through his ancestor - which can vaguely happen IRL via the administration of psychedelic or entheogenic substances.I'd like to read more Allan.
A journey to the past......a book to remember
An entertaining adventure story.
The novel is thrilling, fun and easy to read, full of adventure and exciting exploits.The novels are like reading a previous version of Indiana Jones books.The novels were written and take place over 100 years ago, and gives you a picture of life in Africa during that time.His books were the precursor to the Indiana Jones Novels.
It takes place completely in his home where Allan and a friend smoke a native herb and regress to pre-historic times.A dream sequence reveals the adventures of their pre-historic counterparts.
Exotic .
The back cover blurb says it's a "classic 'old dark house' novel of psychological terror." And indeed, director James Whale in 1932 would adapt Priestley's story and create a movie called "The Old Dark House," which I watched directly after reading this novel.
Atmospheric and amusing as the film is, the book (naturally) is better.There are no gruesome shocks in the way of modern horror but, if you let your imagination put you in the shoes of the lonely travellers who find themselves stranded in the strange old Femm house, it is really creepy and horripilating.Priestley is able to go inside his characters thoughts and history in much more depth than Whale was able to do, and this is where it steps ahead of the film.
Back in 2003, I first saw the original 1932 film THE OLD DARK HOUSE, and I desperately wanted to read the original source material, BENIGHTED.
I love stories about old, scary houses, and this book inspired a 1930s film, "The Old Dark House," which gave birth to a whole genre of movies.Benighted is the tale of people stranded by a horrendous storm and flooding in a remote corner of Wales.
I've read a lot of Golden Age crime fiction recently and thought I'd give this one a go, JBP having the extra attraction of being a 'real writer'.I wasn't impressed.But that's about it.I had another of Priestley's books, The Magicians, lined up as my next read but I think I'll give that a miss now.
"This is yet another book which I have spent my precious reading time on this year which features a Party of Roving Twits.I hate books where all the women do is scream and all the men do is make faux-Wilde pithy observations on everything.
A beautifully written and charmingly amusing, and perhaps definitive, 'old dark house' tale, with viewpoint chapters allowing for a Freudian depth of character which underpins the post-war allegory and social comment which was Priestley's intent, accentuated by the climax, which avoids the somewhat clumsier happy ending of the film.
The Old Dark House is one novel any horror literature fan should take the time to read.Written by J.P. Priestly in 1927, it was published in the United States as The Old Dark House, but originally as Benighted (the title you can find it at through Valancourt Books).
The novel was retitled The Old Dark House for U.S. publication and filmed under that name by James Whale in 1932.In an Old Dark House story, a group of mismatched characters, friends or strangers, finds themselves stranded in a large, spooky structure, usually during a storm.
I was left with a feeling of sadness when it ended, and only wished the best for the characters, who I grew to know and like very much in a matter of only 152 pages.Now I must seek out the 1932 Universal film THE OLD DARK HOUSE, that was based on this book, as well as more books by J.B. Priestly!
In the time since I first read this book, it was acquired for reissue by the fine folks at Valancourt Books, who were kind enough to ask me to do the introduction for it, which I was more than happy to do.I'm proud as punch to have this be the first book I was ever asked to write an introduction for, and I really couldn't think of a better one.
A real "old dark house" thriller.In fact "The Old Dark House" was the title used in the 1932 flick starring Melvyn Douglas, Ernest Thesiger and Boris Karloff.Well worth reading if you're a horror or gothic fan.And I heartily recommend (being an avid Karloff fan} seeing the movie.
"The story begins in the classic fashion with a group of people caught out in a sudden storm.Through cryptic comments, the jumpy, inhospitable hosts, and noises that do not come from the raging storm, the characters realize that there are more things to be frightened of "in" their supposed sanctuary .
This old book surprisingly does little to date itself and has great messages, in addition to being quite entertaining.If I were you, I'd read the book first, then rent/buy the movie with Boris Karloff.The book doesn't have a Hollywood feel, nor the same ending as the movie.Otherwise, the movie follows the book nearly word-for-word.
This is the third book by Priestley I have read- the others being the novel 'the magicians' and the collection of short stories 'the other place'.I have never been disappointed by his writing- his style, use of language, plotting and characterization are all excellent.This short novel is no exception.
I love the setup so much.The writing starts off light and breezy, and is thoroughly enjoyable, but the pace and quality slackens off in places, particularly (curiously) in scenes with two of the women by themselves.At a couple of places, the reading was laborious, and I'm disappointed that the narrative didn't grip me completely the whole night through.
Great readThis book is easy to understand & answered a lot of unanswered questions I had after reading the kjv bible.
This is truly one of the forgotten books of EDEN.The life of Adam and Eve after they were expelled from Eden.Very nice and good.Even my christian friends doesn't know about these books.
A really great (and super short!) read.Tells the story of Adam and Eve after they've been expelled from the Garden and why Satan messes with them.Very worthwhile to be preceded or followed by Paradise Lost and the Bible's Genesis.
This book is one I'll probably buy at some point, and read to my kids as preparation for their own missions.This book almost seems to show me that being a missionary is the work of very young people.
I understand this book is out of print.I picked it up in my church library.William Borden was an unknown to me before reading it.Hands down, the most moving book I've read in years.Since picking it up a week or so, I've shared exerpts with a multitude of people.
Another Christian biography that is an outstanding story of an outstanding man.Unfortunately as with George Mueller, this book was not well written.He was a very wealthy aristocrat who lived for ministry among the poor and lost, and is a worthy example for any era.
Another great young man of faith in Jesus.
Borden of Yale tells the story of a young man, William Borden who lived at the turn of the 20th century with a heart for God. The book is truly inspiring as it depicts William's life from childhood to college to seminary school then to the short time beyond.
The work traces a remarkable transformation from a lovesick wretch to a strong, courageous woman of intellect and principle.
The story included a lot of imagery about the city of Milan and I think that helped the reader get drawn in.Every once in awhile, their sergeant had to come in to the hospital as well.This story could appeal to either gender as it has a part about war and a part about emotions.
A fairly short text but moving in many ways and curious in it's descriptions - original to it's very bones.
This is one of my favorite short stories.So sparse, so true to life.Sometimes the first line just pops into my head.
Just a glimpse at more loss and injury and the pains of war, but so well written.
Another good short story by Christie.
Extremely boring!
Ruthless! Good story. One of my favourites!!
Wow. Thought-provoking.
This is my first GLH, though I tried and didn't finish another one that had a very spoiled rich girl for heroine.At first it read like a George MacDonald romance - which made me quite happy as I love his old romance novels.
At one point the heroine is being pressured by her fiance, and he's using the whole "the husband gets to dictate to the wife" line of thinking, which she rejects by saying, "Milton, you have no authority over me.
So bad, it's funny.
Everything that can go wrong does, and then it all magically wraps up in about three pages, with a few major plot holes still gaping.
My favorite GLH bookI have always loved her books about families pulling together in hardship.This one takes the cake with well developed characterizations.Although following a tried and true theme, there are differences in outcome that are unique in this one.Highly recommend.
Going through pages, I completely relate it with current on-going situation in India.
It's amazing how he, with the utmost ease, explains each and every aspect of Indian society from all angles through various characters.His characters make you traverse through each and every dimension of the plagues of our erstwhile Bharat (widow marriage in this case).
its good.......
A searing polemic indicting the death penalty in England (which was primarily by hanging, but he also touches on other methods of execution), in the guise of a defense of the executioner.Duff's style makes me think of a mid-20th century British version of Stephen Colbert.
Old-fashioned stories. I liked them
A wine-seller, Mr. Weston, arrives with his assistant Michael at the village of Folly-Down, a small English village populated by an atheist vicar, his teenage daughter, in love with an angel she once saw painted on an inn signboard, an allegedly promiscuous gravedigger, a mystical young man who wanders the fields converting bulls and geese to Christianity and a variety of other colourful and often very unpleasant rural eccentrics.Like many truly memorable books, Mr. Weston's Good Wine is often hard to read.
The story REALLY begins when Mr. Weston enters the inn on page 112 (Chapter 20), and it picks up a little bit and plateaus for a while and sort of ends with a whimper.The conceit of the book is really interesting—a(n anti-) Christian allegory that is also a farce—but the execution at the story level wasn't there for me at all (though I have to admit that at the sentence and paragraph levels, he is a deceptively simple writer who is really good at quick and dirty characterization).Overall, meh.
I love 19th century fiction, and this was in the general style, but oh my, there the similarity ended.Plodding stodgy prose with little or no real character building.Possibly one of the most tedious books I have ever given up on.
Mr Weston seems very fond of the villagers of Folly Down, but he envies them mortality; God wishes that he could die and says that he will drink his own wine of death one day.The villagers are a set of very colourful characters; the vicar Revd Nicholas Grobe, does not believe in God since the death of his wife in childbirth, his daughter Tamar is an innocent who wishes nothing more than to be loved by an angel; preferably the one in blue trousers on the sign of the local pub.
that makes me think that Mr. Weston (view spoiler)[or God himself (hide spoiler)] is making us decide, using our own freewill, what kind of life we want.There are just too many characters and there was a part in my reading when I felt bored because I felt I no longer care who are some of them.What is surprising, though, is Powys' openness to sex that makes this book, in my opinion, still quite unconventional.
Powys' use of allusion is often quite obvious, but what he intends by those allusions is often left to readers to interpret in nicely clever manners.If you decide to read Mr. Weston's Good Wine, I strongly recommend you keep going until you are well into the setting at Folly Down.
In parts, it reads like the kind of bawdy 'country matters' stories written by H.E.Bates and A.E.Coppard.Mr Weston arrives in the small Dorset town of Folly Down to sell the inhabitants his good wine.This novel is an interesting oddity unlike most other things I've read.
Hard going in parts esp. the dialect sections.
The penultimate volume of Sigrid Undset's Master of Hestviken tetralogy, In the Wilderness finds Olav Audunsson mourning the death of Ingunn, his wife of about 20 years.Olav adopts a young girl named Bothild Asgeirsdatter, who befriends his daughter Cecilia and adds a little light to his life, just before the countryside erupts into chaos when a Swedish lord invades Norway.
The series slows wih each novelIn the Wilderness is the fourth in a four novel series following an eight year old boy named Olav through his coming of age, unhappy marriage to a chronically ill wife, and now, well into his forties, through a war between his native Norway and Denmark.
You have to read all four books!I ended up reading this one last only because I had to wait for it ordered.Wow. They are all amazing.Can't believe a writer from the 1920's could have handwritten and published this much material.
As converts often are, she ventured beneath the veneer and found the good stuff often hidden from general view.The reader must be prepared to be educated in her venture.
I started this book in Norway last summer.If I had it to do over, though, I would have started with volume 1 of the series.It was more like just the end of another chapter.But I guess that's what you do when you're writing a series.
Whew!This was like giving birth!My all time favorite book.This was the third time I have read this and the first for a book club.It was enlightening to discuss.Dont be intimidated, just read it!!
This was the most difficult of the series.So much guilt and misery.I could not keep track of the characters, and their connections.The end was better, one more book to go.
Definitely worth reading if you are reading the whole series (The Master of Hestviken); however, not as riveting as the previous two books.
The middle sagged and I found myself skimming over the blow by blow descriptions of (it felt like) nearly every raid or battle that Lawrence engaged in with the Arab uprising.I wanted to know what motivated and inspired Lawrence and his Arab friends and foes.
I had heard of Lawrence of Arabia many times in print and popular media, but had never taken the opportunity to find out about him.This book, from my Uncle Gary's collection, was enjoyable to read and very informative about the events which form Lawrence's legend.Thanks Uncle Gary!
Most admirable..
A tribute to a heroic friend...
I loved the movie - this is better...Good writing and some depth to what made Lawrence tick
Although somewhat dated, a very enjoyable biography of T.E. Lawrence and his work with the Arabs.I coming to believe if those dividing up the spoils of World War I had listened to Lawrence many of the issues we face today in the world would have come to a head sooner and be done with.Overall excellent work for 1920's...
It is a play in three acts, where it is discussed between a mother and daughter that their son/brother-in-law, John Middleton, is having an affair, with his wife Constance's best friend, Mary Louise Durham.However, in the following act, the temptress' own husband discovers the personal effect of John, and accuses him in the full audience of his wife, Constance's family and close friend Bernard.
This is just so unexpected.More like Oscar Wilde than my concept of Somerset Maugham.This is not "The Painted Veil." This is hilarious, witty, and of course, true.Great cast, too.I listened twice to catch the things I missed while laughing.
With this in mind, I am surprised to find in the list of early feminist literature things like Pygmalion or Awakening by Kate Chopin (which I do not find feminist at all, even though it is touted as one of the most important early feminist fiction pieces), and do not find the brilliant (and brilliantly written) “The Sacred Giraffe” or the above play by Maugham.
The titular character's view of marriage is a tad to harsh for me to accept in whole, but she makes plenty of valid points.There are a few clumsy plot points, but on the whole I think it's a valuable piece of theatre literature.
Written in 1926, this play is still engaging with clever word plays and dialogue.The dramatized audio version, which features Kate Burton (Richard Burton's daughter) as one of the main players, includes cleverly-timed exchanges, timeless questions to ponder about marriage, and a twist at the end.Highly entertaining!
Outstanding! This play gets even better with age.
The audiobook version was entertaining.I recommend it for those looking for a lighthearted book.I cleaned the house while listening to it.
An excellent play, thoroughly post-modern and mature in its treatment of marriage and infidelity.
This story is in the style of Oscar Wilde, intelligent and witty.A very quick read with lots of laughs.I listened to it as a play on two CD's and found it most pleasurable.
Constance is a savvy lady!Some of the lines in this play were perfectly timed, and I would have loved to have seen them delivered.Smart.
What I adored about this play was the abundance of interesting female characters.This is a play for actresses – not one or two, but a whole company of talented actresses, none of whom are wilting ingénues.Those with a bent towards women’s rights should check out this play and decide for themselves whether its subversive feminism or horrifically chauvinist.
The Constant Wife was an enjoyable story and was performed quite well by Kate Burton, Rosalind Ayres, and John de Lancie.I thought it was an insightful examination on the limitations that women had in marriage during that period.But, it was also quite funny and I did relish Constance's benign yet devilish manipulations.
I love Winifred Holtby's writing, and I love the covers of the new Virago editions of her work so much that I pounced on a bargain copy of The Land of Green Ginger, even though I already owned the original green VMC edition.But my feelings about this book were a little mixed - much more positive than negative, but definitely mixed.I really loved the heroine, and she carried me through the story.Joanna was born in South Africa, the daughter of Edith, who had dreamed of romance and adventure, and who had married a missionary.
very very good read.my first Holtby novel, long intended to read.Her work is incredibly modern and intelligent.character and place very evocative.will seek out further works.The Land Of Green Ginger is a real tiny street in Hull, my home town.
Beautifully written.The story of Joanna married to a consumptive and living the harsh reality of life on a farm in Yorkshire with a young family.She dreams of seeing the world.I loved it!
Joanna sacrifices a lot for Teddy and their two children, moving to a remote farm where life is hard and money in short supply.Winifred Holtby gets to the heart of what it's like to be a woman, making sacrifices and compromises, but never quite giving up her dreams.
If one thinks, acts, believes in a way that others cannot understand or see as 'normal', the way people should think, act, believe to be a good person, then one is misunderstood, ostracized and falsely accused.Humanity is uncomfortable with others that live in any way different to their own and fear what they don't understand or can control/predict.
you see the female lead is so uninteresting that I could not care less about her fate especially that the style seems almost satirical which is not my cup of tea
PTSD is not a new phenomenom at all.If you have never read any of Winifred Holtby's writing before, please put that right and pick up one of her books and this is as good a place to start as any.
I loved Joanna, the naive-but-hard-working main character who kept imagining even when faced with the drudgery of life on a farm and a poorly, ill-tempered, irrational husband.I loved the description of life in a village, where what people think is true is more important than the truth.
4.25I was in the perfect mood/mindset to read this charming book.My choice of the word charming might be misleading as all is not well with Joanna and Teddy.Teddy is consumptive and Joanna finds herself the target of a scandal.While this book is a comfortable read, it is in no way fluffy.
I've wanted to read this book for decades but only just got round to it.Young woman marries in the whirl of war and at the end of hostilities finds herself with two children and a damaged husband.Not everything ends happily but sunlight can be seen poking round edges of the clouds.
Interesting, and infuriating, when showing the plight of women in the early 20th century, particularly in rural settings - the prejudice and lack of freedom - but I couldn't be bothered with the fantasy stuff about Sir Walter Raleigh and knights etc.And quoting St Augustine at length seemed a bit of a cop-out.That sounds harsh, but I didn't find much to recommend this novel.
James clearly knows that he's chosen the wrong girlfriend, and he's heartily sick and tired of being thrown over for upper-class snobs who have money.The one time he refuses to behave "according to his station," he finds himself in a fix.Loved the twists and turns in this one!
A short story on how a young man’s antics to keep up with his girlfriend’s rich friends gets him involved in the case of a missing emerald.In an attempt to keep up with them, an unintentional exchange of trousers lands him with the missing emerald belonging Rajah’s.From here things pick up and it’s an entertaining read.
I liked how the reader should have been too afraid that the protagonist is in danger but at last he doesn't just get away with it he also manage to save the day.
I am not sure why this is labeled as a Parker Pyne story as he in not in it at all .Maybe it was in a collection of Pyne stories.It was a good shirt story.But not one of her best.?
I've read a number of VERY LONG books already this year so I'm #notsorry that I'm adding a short story for a prompt.At least it's all text, which is more than I can say of the solution of using children's picture books to fulfill prompts.
On the one hand, it was really very beautifully written.On the other hand, for the most part, I was pretty sure I didn't get a word of it.By the end, I began to slowly see the light, but even so I wasn't sure and I had to look up several academic analyses of the work to see how it matched up to my own interpretation.
In their hotel, she is supposed to have developed an "unhealthy" attachment to a beautiful widow, Mrs. Kerr.I guess the reader is supposed to feel that this is the opposite of the truth, and that Mrs Kerr is a sinister woman, like Mrs Merle or other malevolent Henry James characters.
Does it ever occur to you being alive is a mistake?" And, "Look at the ridiculous way people don't know what they want and the fuss they make when they can't get it."And I absolutely love Bowen's "horrible little blighter," ten-year-old Cordelia, who's not afraid to call a spade a spade: "I only like people in books, who only exist when they matter."
I love passionate yet unspoken love affairs where two people express their fervent love for one another solely by exchanging tortured looks.But this was just a little too unspoken in that there were significant portions where I could only guess at what was happening.
A selection of the English middle classes are 'over-wintering' in a hotel on the Italian Riviera in the 1920 sThis is stunning- wry, incisive, quite cruel with great insight.Not a bit dated.The characters are superb and the language incredible.
Yes you can get to the bottom of what she means but they were a little exhausting and made for a very slow reading of the book:“James Milton’s attempt to come farther into her life, to regions by his acquaintance of them surely sufficiently ice-bound, appeared in the light of present considerations heroic: he had been staking his future.
The story is about British travelers who are staying in a hotel on the Italian coast and their interactions.The characters are well-drawn, with both men and women equally well portrayed.Bowen's style is lovely, and her descriptions often make one feel as though one is right there with her in the beauty of the Italian coast, with its hills, olive trees, flowers, and more.
I bogged down in this one.Couldn't get interested in the characters.Didn't finish.
A wonderful book so evocative of the era of the 1920's.Set on the Italian Riviera, a cast of characters who are staying in the hotel.The bathroom scene was so funny and typical of a time before en-suites!I loved it!
There is definitely still some plot action, but mostly Bowen chooses to focus on developing the interior thoughts of the main characters.I turn to a Bowen book when I want beautifully constructed sentences, thoughtful interior monologues (and dialogues too) that just always hit the nail on the head, and an exquisite sense of place and time.
An interesting book with some lovely passages, but patchy to follow and sometimes confusing.All became clear at the end.Perhaps explained by this being her first published novel as later works I have very much enjoyed.
There are lots of interesting reflections on time, on seizing the day and the sorts of relationship that can help us get through life, all taking place in the Italian countryside.Its a strange book, with quite a few relationships and things that are never fully explained, and the writing is very dense at times but beautiful I found.
There was one scene I found rather amusing, but on the whole, nothing really happens, it's hard to like any of the characters and if this is what it was like to be a wealthy British citizen in the late 1920s, post-Great War, then I for one am glad I wasn't part of it.
I was wanting to love her -- lesbian!Early 20th-century!Something of a classic.But this took me FOREVER to get through.I was bored, and yet it was completely up my alley: sea resort hotel populated by upper-middle class British people.Comedy of manners.But not so funny or interesting, alas.
I say the narration is more like Austen in that Bowen moves in and out of her characters' consciousnesses and also makes use of third person narration whereas in Woolf's more modernist works the reader is primarily inside the heads of characters throughout.There is a rather interesting allusion to Pride and Prejudice in the novel that I am still processing.
I wonder if this is true for all of Bowen's novels.I hate to say it, but the cover was my favorite part of this book.Bottom line:The Hotel is beautifully written and insightful, but somewhat cold and not especially compelling.
In fact, I found Bowen's writing so opaque that I often had no idea what was going on!Sydney is supposed to be suffering an "unhealthy" attachment to a Mrs Kerr, who is one of those ultra-worldly types native to hotels on the Riviera, but there is no sense of this attachment coming from either Mrs Kerr or Sydney - only a bit of reported gossip from the other ladies and one or two other vague indications in the text.
Elizabeth Bowen's first published novel, this is a beautifully written novel, a hugely accomplished work, not my favourite Bowen, but very good indeed.Full review here: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/...
Bowen's first book - perhaps should have been a long short story… superb command of language.
Her first novel apparently - could explain why I never reached the end; tried it several times, sticking about chapters 3 or 4.
They occupy a bubble in space and time - a hotel on the Italian Riviera, and herein lies the concept and also the really the difficulty of the book.
A perfect novella.
I remain deeply affected by Shklovsky.This particular edition of THIRD FACTORY concludes with a brief statement by Lyn Hejinian, the "Language" writer.These images remain with me.It is also useful to note that "Language" writers, most of them anti-imperialist petite bourgeois white intellectuals (of American pedigree) would cleave to Shklovsky, the anti-Bolshevik anti-Tsarist.
Shklovsky was a major literary and social critic whose ideas about literary form (Formalism) aligned him with the Futurists of the Russian avant-garde in the teens and twenties (Mayakovsky, Khlebnikov etc.) This book of essays deals with the various 'factories' which processed himself as a human being.
A great Russian Formalist genre busting read: "Take me, third factory of life!"
Self-indulgent and tedious, this part biography, part fiction, part poetry, part literary criticism collection isn't worth anyone's time.
"My brain is busy with the daily grind.The high point of the day is morning tea.And that is too bad: some artists shed blood and sperm.Others urinate.Net weight is all that matters to the buyer."
I read a translation of this play into English.Cocteau's film version is so great that I was greatly disappointed to see how little the original play had in common with it.There were no scenes in that strange underworld in the film, and the character of death (the great Maria Casares in the film version) seems even a little insipid.
I wasted an hour of my life, everything is to hate in that book, the protagonist deserve the award of dick of the year, honestly.
I've decided to do it this way because the film was an instant favourite of mine, with actors whom I adore, a director whose style I love, lots of uses of psychology and psychoanalysis of the subconscious, and the art of Salvador Dali to top it all off--a perfect movie suited to my tastes, in other words.The book is...really different in this respect.Okay, so, what I DID like is the general setup of the asylum, and its patients.
Written in 1927, the book reads more like something from 50-75 years earlier.The only common point between the movie and the book is the basic premise of a lunatic posing as a psychiatrist.The main difference between the two is that the movie is brilliant and the book is not.
Loved this story!
The House of Dr. Edwardes is a modern gothic novel about about madness, power and terror.Side note:The House of Dr. Edwardes was written by John Leslie Palmer and Hilary Aidan St. George Saunders under the pseudonym Francis Beeding.Hitchcock based Spellbound loosely upon this gothic detective story.
I read this because it was the basis for the Hitchcock movie Spellbound.It was, however, very little like the movie.Hitchcock changed the story radically.The original novel conveys a creepy atmosphere well, but the mystery at its heart is easily solved and the plot moves too slowly.All in all, a waste of reading time.
I read this book as a reissue entitled Spellbound.this book was the inspiration for Hitchcock's movie "Spellbound", the only similarities to the book and movie are the names of Dr. Edwardes, Dr. Murchison, and Constance.not a bad book at all.it's a shame Hitchcock couldn't follow the book exactly b/c a movie of this book by him would have been incredible...
This was a terrible book.It was the January selection for Lifelong Learning's Book to Film series.No one in the discussion group liked it either.The only positive comment being that it was at least a very quick read.The movie, Spellbound, was terrific however.It bore no resemblance to the book.
Not the movie...I am fond of the movie that was taken, very loosely, from this book; Spellbound.See the movie again, for this has only a mental hospital & some character names that are present in the movie.Satanism is featured to some degree.I borrowed this book on Kindle Unlimited.
This book was the basis for Hitchcock's film Spellbound with Gregory Peck and Ingrid Bergman.As a huge Hitchcock fan, I had to read the book.The book is quite different from the movie as usual, but I thought the book was extremely creepy in its own right and I could see why Hitchcock would be inspired by it.
Started by liking it, but ended up bored with the devil worship and skipped through to the end.
A bit predictable, but a very good read.
Frances Beeding does a fantastic job of playing directly on the fears and worries the public no doubt had in this wonderfully written novel that never fails to keep you wondering what is going to happen next.
By now, the twist premise (which I'm not going to spoil for you) has been so overused that it doesn't seem strong enough to carry a novel alone, but the first two-thirds are still a classic example of keeping things ominous without obviously telegraphing all of what's going on.
After a year of reading, I finished the last half of the book in about a day.A psychological thriller from the 1920s set in an isolated private mental institution.I'm not sure I'd the first half is really that much shower than the second half, but the climax and conclusion were riveting.
It was more frightening than I imagined it could be Hitchcock had good material for his film!
I've always loved Doctor Dolittle's stories.This book is great but unfortunately it lost me after finishing 2/3 part.The moon journey plot is not very appealing and distracts from the main title.
Somewhere in the story telling, Dr. Doolittle hears rumors of giant moths, so quizzes his animal and insect friends for more information about them.I've always thought the primary fun in the Dr. Doolittle books were the little stories that the animals tell each other within the confines of the major plot themes.
I love these delightful books!This one leaves you with a bit of a cliffhanger, and I can't wait to get my hands on the next one so I can find out what happens!Dolittle really is an extraordinary character.
But it's quite an abrupt change, so much so that in many ways it's really almost two different books rather than one.I've been reading the entire Dolittle series to my son.My son started getting a little bored towards the end of the first quarter of the book; roughly half-way through the "garden" portion, which could be considered the end of the entertainment story arc.
Longtime favorite I first read a Doctor Doolittle book when I was in elementary school.I still reread them periodically.Hugh Lofting’s characters are timeless.
Starting to understand the style of P G Wodehouse and the ‘Jeeves and Wooster’ stories.Rather an easy and jolly read this one.All I can say is “Well, isn’t Jeeves a cunning fellow!!”
I just love Wodehouse but unlike most people I don’t consider that stories involving Jeeves & Wooster are his best.I have to say I enjoy the Blandings series or his stand-alone books a lot more.Not terribly original but enjoyable nonetheless.
Festive cheer from Bertie.This is a short story set, unsurprisingly around the festive period.The 23rd, 24th & 25th to be precise.It's classic Jeeves and Wooster and just right to read whilst digesting the Christmas dinner.
Classic Wodehouse!
3 stars not because it was bad but just so short!
Free Download - Having never read any P.G.Wodehouse I enjoyed this short snippet, and will look out for more by this author now :-)
Despite Jeeves' remarks about her not being the right woman for Bertie, Wooster ignores him completely and goes about exacting his revenge on Tuppy, his friend who had played a trick with a hot water bottle on poor Bertie.Bertie's plan of revenge was suggested by Bobbie.Except it goes slightly awry.
A wonderful delight ! :)
*2.5 starsA brilliant little story introducing me to P.G Woodhouse and his famous series of Jeeves and Wooster.I really enjoyed the character of Jeeves, and I’m quite excited to expand further into the realm of Woodhouse and his stories.I really think he’ll be an author I enjoy if his writing is as fun and entertaining as this one!
Jeeves and Wooster are up to their same old tricks, pulling pranks on other members of the household before Christmas, exacerbated by the fact that they were meant to be going to Monte Carlo and that Wooster is in love with a girl in the house he is staying.
Brilliant as ever.Wodehouse is unparalleled as a writer of comic fiction.Just the tonic old boy on a grey January morn.
A short but mildly amusing story.
Little gems like this pepper the text.The book is divided into four main sections dealing with the external and perceptual world of the mind, the physical world and causality, the inner world of the mind and the Universe and man's place in it.
Here Russel tried to bring the connection of philosophy, psychology, science, especially in his days.That is what the book strived to do.It was very much engrossed in the process how we know something when we say we know from the context of science, philosophy, psychology.But Russel seemed to lost in the arguments, sometimes unnecessarily elaborated some topic which is obvious.
In 1927, a publisher Russell says he would pay $ 5,000 if he wrote a 100,000-word philosophical book.Russell accepts the offer and writes a book in 3 months.While it is interesting that the atomic structure and electron movements are studied and interpreted philosophically at the level of Bohr atomic theorists, those who read Russell's other books are going to recapture in some parts.
An incredibly clear explanation for the hardest concepts to explain, those that we use every day to define reality but we didn't pay enough attention to even consider what they mean, what is consciousness, what is though, what is memory, learning, language, emotions, inference, etc Bertrand transport us in a structured even poetic way into the purpose and basis for philosophy, giving us a good stand inside the universe and our challenges to understand it
And that's where Russell's Outline of Philosophy comes in.Although much has changed since this book was written in 1927, some of the philosophical questions Russell examines are still worthwhile considering given what we've learnt about the world around us.
(The Introduction actually explains that the book is based on a first-year introduction to philosophy class that he taught, so it's very much aimed at the beginner.) But in addition to that, Russell's ideas of epistemology are very much rooted in science.Reading this chapter taught me that Russell knew about nuclei and electrons, photons, quantum theory, isotopes.
So, the book opens with a nice introduction to some of the philosophical doubts and develops into an analysis of psychological dynamics of human understandings; language and memory is regarded as most crucial in this section of the book.He ends this section with an analysis of human insight of this apparent reality.
The only thing wrong with this book is that Russell tackles such a wide array of topics that one chapter heading itself could be expanded into a full length novel.
Enjoying the lucid writing style and insights.
The pleasure of reading a well written mystery novel cannot be replaced by anything in the world.
Another oldie found in our inherited library.The first few chapters were especially intriguing, with a glimpse into that time period which urged me to read more.However, I felt the pacing in the second 2/3 fizzled out a bit.The ending had a unique twist as to how the murder was committed.
will not read one of these books as written by someone from another country
First of all I have to say I'm usually not a big fan of crime novels.You could compare Vance and Van with Sherlock and Watson.The big difference is of course that Watson usually plays a significant role in the stories, while Van just follows Vance around quietly.
Although Philo Vance was, it seems, a major inspiration for Ellery Queen and other detectives he fails for me to live up to his reputation upon rereading.Had the police been even minimally competent the murderer would have been discovered before Vance had time to show off his special skills.
And this book was worse than a Scooby-Doo episode in repeatedly drawing attention to the actual culprit with many a throwaway, "Well, there is no way it could be that guy" and "I'm pretty sure we can rule him out."If you are a fan of the murder mystery genre -- of which I am decidedly one; Agatha Christie all day, every day -- you may enjoy seeing an early version of a familiar story.
But I find him to be layered and interesting because he only wants people to think he's the above, but he's really a deeper character and takes things more seriously than he gives off.The story itself was decent.At least I know that I'll get a good story with an interesting amateur sleuth and a decent mystery to figure out.
Second in the Philo Vance series of mysteries.Actress, the "Canary," is murdered in locked room and there is no way anyone could have done it because of the person who sits in the lobby of her apartment complex.Vance, utilizing luck and music and deduction, proves how and who did the murder.
"The Canary Murder Case" takes you to an earlier time, when men dressed in elegant suits for dinner and everyone smoked with no fear.The DA takes his friend to the scene of the murder of a stage star, the Canary.
Although I do not enjoy this Author as much as my dear Rex Stout or even Ellery Queen, I must say that this was an ingenious novel!As for the ending, it was to be expected when Vance incited Markham to allow the culprit some time...All in all, I enjoy these Philo Vance adventures, although he is a bit convinced intellectually...
This volume contains 3 novels:- Queen Lucia: An extremely funny story about a self-proclaimed leader of Riseholme's social life, Lucia.Although she claims to have many talents, among which speaking Italian, playing the piano etc., she has in fact none.And sometimes this shows, leading to hilarious scenes as when she was asked to translate for a visiting Italian composer.
Vol.1 - Queen Lucia, Miss Mapp, & Lucia in London.Mapp is a very different character from Lucia: the latter's social pretensions bring a wry smile; the former's quite a nasty piece of work (wouldn't want her in my social circle)- though she always gets her come-uppance.Queen Lucia probably the most amusing.
Stacey, thanks so much for recommending this.I have just read the trilogy and thoroughly enjoyed them.In particular I liked the Lucia books as she is such an amusing and fascinating character.HAve you read any of the others?
They were so used to seeing me read them that when I met my daughter in Rye at the beginning of a 6 week trip through Europe, she arranged with the local Benson expert to give us a walking tour of 'Mapp and Lucia's Tilling' - even though it was off season and we were the only ones on the tour.
I keep this book by my bed always.This volume contains Books 1-3 of the "Lucia" Stories.One of the FUNNIEST books I've ever read, certainly.It relates the tales of Lucia, a self-important, pretentious middle-aged poseur who strives to be the queen bee of her little village, Riseholme.
It's a shame E.F. Benson only wrote 6 Lucia books!Good thing they are all available in 2 yummy volumes!Lucia and her archrival Ms Mapp are hands down two of the funniest, most malicious enemies to ever see print.Multiple rereadings of this book have not made it any less funny!
I feel this should count as 3 towards my Reading Challenge since it's an omnibus edition!
The agressively trivial proceedings can start to pall, and the comic energy can start to flag, especially as they drag to their conclusions.But there's plenty of good fun to be had, even if it isn't long before I start wanting to move on to something a little more substantial.
Love these books by E.F. Benson!The characters are so conniving and funny - the gaps between their social manners and what's really on their mind are what makes this an entertaining treasure.Enjoy, enjoy, enjoy!
Witty, cheeky, very British. Hurrah!
Although the humour caused by their desire to be superior to everyone else was amusing, especially when they would get their comeuppance as they constantly did, still it was a little TOO nasty and spiteful for me to smile fondly at their foibles, if you can really call them that.
It was slow going at first, but I love the comedy of errors and how simultaneously genteel and backbiting they were.I would read more!EDIT - If you like "Keeping up Appearances" it's along the same vein.Less slapstick, more bite!
Satirical portraits of society in provincial England in the 1920s.Just love the characters--Lucia and Miss Mapp, of course, but also Georgie and Olga and Diva.Very diverting following them around and "listening in".E.F. Benson is brilliant!
LOVED IT!
If you live in Riseholme, England, you are a minion of Lucia (pronounced the Italian way), the Queen of Art and Culture.Miss Mapp is around 40 and has her eye on the Major who lives just across the street.
A wonderful portrayal of small-town snobbery in the 1920s.Refined and lady-like, Lucia will nevertheless go to any lengths to assert her supremacy over her rivals - and no trick is too underhand for her (including stealing everyone else's good ideas!).Yet, despite her affectations and devious tricks, she enlivens her community.A wonderful read.
Deliciously satirical and entertaining observations of the human condition!
Utterly divine and not at all tarsome.
Slow starting.Didn't like the characters at first.Thought the cultural snobbery was laid on too thick.Then the characters started to grow on me.But the back and forth one-upmanship just grew tedious.Finished it but don't think I will read anymore in the series.
Actually, gave up partway through Miss Mapp - getting a bit samey
A passionate, poorly argued hodge-podge on the anti-enlightenment trends of the interwar French intelligentsia that gathered around men like Charles Maurras and L' Action Française.The thesis is interesting -- though not entirely persuasive -- but the book is better known than read.
one of the most prophetic secular books ever.
Intellectuals are prone to politics and their own interests, the majority of people does not think beyond their primary needs and interests ...Who is going to think outside the box, and want something moral and truthful and meaningful for all?
For example, the author claims that it is not necessarily the goal of a clerc that makes one fail, but rather how this work is used that makes it sufficiently treasonous.If this were the case, then Spinoza, a clerc which the author to be a shining example, would be a failure under interpretation of post-modern religion.
Miss Maple such a smart cookie for her age.
What can I say?! I am a total sucker for a good mystery and no one supplies that (nor the solution) quite as satisfyingly as A. C.
Miss Marple made her debut in this very short story.The Tuesday night club is a group of friends including Miss Marple’s egotistical, author nephew and a retired head of Scotland Yard.Before the rest of the group really knows what’s hit them, Miss Marple has solved the crime and returned to her knitting.
Pretty sure this is what I read.I found it online.Even if it was a short story IN a short story, this is the first one I actually solved!
The first short story featuring Miss Marple.It's a very simple short story, but with a very good plot.Group of 6 friends, one tells a true crime story and the others try to figure out how it was done.A great introduction to the wonderful character of Miss Marple.
Miss Marple's debut! Loved it!
Not much good.
This is a fun fast read that has Miss Marple giving us the scoop on a murder by poisoning.
Great intro to Miss Marple
Almost overlooked in the sudden idea to form the Tuesday Night Club, she knits away and solves the mystery, having seen the red flag as the story was told and recognised who was the culprit and why.It is a beautifully paced and controlled short story with a mystery within the story.
Miss Marple: the Complete Short StoriesRating System:* couldn't finish, ** wouldn't recommend, *** would recommend, **** would read again, ***** have read again
I doubt you will find this on the bookshelves of children's libraries today.I found it stuck in with the other great Faulkner tomes in my local library.Can't wait for my kids to get their first taste of the magic prose of Faulkner via this book.
a short but good fairy tale that caught my attention for half an hour and fulfilled my need for some magic.
I love this simply for being thrown into a little Faulkner fantasy world.
Joyless, mean, boring.
So, I decided to give it a try by picking up this short fairy-tale like story "The Wishing Tree".Faulkner is best known for his stream of consciousness writing style in books like The Sound and the Fury and As I Lay Dying.I neither like or deplore the ending.
This rare book is actually quite good as far as short children’s stories go and shows Faulkner in a unique form as he wrote it as a gift to the 8 year old daughter of a friend.
A very christian morality story that feels outdated to me, and contains way too many stereotypes.
So, I visited the US Embassy Library and I had about an hour to kill, I found this book hidden among the other huge tomes by Faulkner, the book jacket description caught my attention: a rare story by the author, with various handmade editions, never before published, it was also a 1964 first edition hardcover book, and illustrated.In any case, it was an enjoyable story, one I would have surely loved as a kid.
4.5/5 This little children's book was so much fun to read.It was so magical and whimsical.You can see the influence of philosophy and religion hidden every now and then.But it is also just a mix of magic and nonsense.
Magical . Unboring . Great .
Imagine if you will "Alice in Wonderland" retold by Faulkner, and you might come close to this book.I had no idea that Faulkner had writen a children's book, but once I found out, I headed to my local library to check this one out.
And it does take away from the quality of the story, and there are indisputeably better efforts by Hemingway.For face value though, this story is mildly impoverished, and it could be better.
Not much fun.Some killers talk for a while, using spare prose.I think that's the point.
Simple and straight to the point in typical Hemingway fashion.
Well, it's homework and I just don't quite get the point.
I feel like these characters would be perceived as annoying or cliched by most people.To me, they were so ridiculous, I could only find them hilarious.They are so overdone, it's fantastic.
It's Hemingway.Put it's simplistic, annoying, idiotic and racist too.Everything I just don't like in a book.I know that sometimes the characters aren't good enough.And in this book they were all bad.I'd go for better short stories, had I known this wasn't good enough.One star.
It included 5 of his plays and some critical essays.Wilde’s play on words and his portrayal of Victorian society really showcases his genius.This book also contained two interviews with Wilde at the peak of his career and some of his critical writings where he discusses the nature of art.
I did not read the whole book, I merely chose it because it contained a good handful of Wilde's poetry, plays and also his essays and fairy tales.I'll read more of Wilde's works in the future.
Five stars on the prose alone. Very elegant.
The Best Known Works of Oscar Wilde by Oscar Wilde (1940)
I am loving this book.
a twisted, tasty treat.
However, reading his plays one after another, I was struck by the common thread between them; Hidden behind all the wit is a sense of compassion for human fallibility that was completely unexpected.It's such a beautiful sentiment, I find it a pity that everyone tends to be too dazzled by the cleverness and charm to notice.
What a writer!Somehow he always says the opposite of what you would've expect, but somehow it always makes even more sense and is truer.I loved The Importance of Being Earnest and An Ideal Husband.Can't wait to read more though and be surprised again by his vision of the world and society.I think I discovered in Oscar Wilde a new favorite writer of mine!
A gripping, page-turning novel of ideas!
What the hell was I thinking not reading this before?
I LOVE OSCAR WILDE DETAILED AND CAREFUL WRITTINGI ENJOY THE PEACE HE WRITES WITH AND HIS KNLOLEDGEOF HUMAN DESIRES.I GOT SCARED WHEN READING DORIAN GRAY.BUT THIS FANTASY IS AS CURRENT AS FAUSTO.
I loved this book.A real insight into the evil men/ women do and how the soul shows the wear.Whether the external face reveals the truth or not, our conscience haunts us.Wilde was a brilliant writer, witty and wise.
Compilation of all his major works.Must read "Picture of Dorian Gray." Witty, intelligent, amusing.His theory of aesthetics is tantalizingly subversive, so be careful!Been semi-looking for "De Profundis." If anyone has, please lend me!
Oscar Wilde nos demuestra lo terrible que pueden llegar a ser las personas, el dolor que causamos, los estereotipos, lo egoístas y ególatras que podemos llegar a ser, no cabe duda que con estas narraciones te pondrás a reflexionar en todo momento, por eso 5 estrellas.
Good plays, characters that come alive.
Intersting way to express how the events in our life shape our character.Oscar Wilde is a masterful author.I really enjoyed this book.
A happy story of a rowdy Quaker girl, in Colonial America.
Lots of the time, the real gems are the honor winners or even the books unmentioned by the ALA Youth Media Awards (Wonder and Okay for Now anyone?) With this in mind, I’ve decided that I want to try to read at least one honor from each decade.
I couldn’t find it anywhere else, and it was one of the hardest 1920s Newbery books for me to locate, and also one of my 1920s favorites.)I loved how little Dencey/Dionis has certain Quaker rules drilled into her, and she believes if she breaks them she will go to hell.
I agree with Beverly Cleary that it is really "a very fine book." I was cheering for Jetsam as he learned how to read and as he searched for Dencey when she was lost in the storm.I soon got used to the Quaker use of "thee" and just enjoyed the setting, the story, and especially the characters.
This was one of the better older Newbery books that I read.It is simple but interesting.Kind of reminds me of Little Women (although not as good).
Lots of interesting information about Nantucket."Here was to be seen, as in a diminishing glass, a tiny New England, delicately outlined--intensified--in a word, islanded.Instead of the stony fields of New England, the Nantucketers plowed the wide ocean, and at this period of their history, their harvest was gathered from pole to pole.
I liked this Newbery book way more than I thought I would.Dencey is a Quaker girl on Nantucket, and her fiery spirit is of great concern to her pious mother.This book is sweet and very well written.*Read more on my blog: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...
This wonderful Newbery honor book from 1927 tells the story of a young Quaker girl named Dencey and her friendship with an outcast boy.In fact, given the Quaker setting, it seemed to fit.Recommended for anyone who loves historical fiction, New England, or just a good story!
I enjoyed this one a lot.One of my favorite classic children’s books.There is some major of-its-time description of a Native American character.But it’s still a lovely read.[Oct. 2008]
Another older YA historical fiction.Interesting view into Quaker life.It takes place on Nantucket during the whaling years-which is a sure-fire attention grabber for me.
This is one of the best books I've ever read, hands down.I will never stop loving it.Snedeker wrote one of the most touching, powerful, beautiful stories ever told about love, trust, and faith.Anyone who is interested in history or romance or religion should make this a must-read.
If you can get past casually thrown out epithets like "nigger-face" and "Portugee", the low opinion of Native Americans, and the relentlessly crushing guilt that guides these Nantucket Quakers' everyday lives, you'll find a pretty good story of compassion, belonging, adventure, and love.
Lovely and elegant novel for children and adults.Publishing in 1946, Downright Dencey was written at a time when authors sought to write great literature for children and adults.Excellent historical novel with wonderful characters and setting.
Loved it!
I really liked this book.Great how the characters view of each other changed and grew through out the story.Even a surprise on how Sam changed his view of Jill.I liked it better than the 1928 honor winner.
In these stunning dispatches written when Roth was a correspondent in Berlin during the whirlwind period of Weimar Germany, he warned of the false comforts of Jewish assimilation, laid bare the schism between Eastern and Western Jews, and at times prophesied the horrors posed by Nazism.
Given the subject matter it is an understandably angry book, but over c140 pages it doesn’t let up and consequently starts to lose its impact.Roth is always on the side of the downtrodden and oppressed and strongly champions the Jews of Eastern Europe.If you’ve not read any Roth before then start with the novels, which I strongly recommend.
Which is much too simple an explanation, since Roth by no means typifies the Jewish population of the time, I think around 1927, but instead explores the complexity they felt in religion, nationality, identity, and anti-semitism.
And indeed, world of Jewish dockworkers, poor tailors and devout Eastern European Hasidic villages is so far gone now that it seems hard to even imagine just a few decades later.Roth is harsh towards what he sees as an arrogant Western civilization that abominates the Eastern European Jews and holds them in contempt.
The thing about my son is that according to Talmudic law he’s not Jewish, having only a Jewish father, not a Jewish mother.I had the good fortune to have been reading THE WANDERING JEWS by Joseph Roth at the time and suggested it to him, being a history of the Eastern Jews from which our family has descended.
Engaging, evocative, brief history.
This book goes well with "When Nietzsche Wept".I read this a few years ago, and it also gives a good idea of what late-19th-century/early-20th century life was like in Vienna.While "When Nietzsche Wept" is based on upper-middle-class life, "The Wandering Jews" includes good descriptions of what life was like for the poor and struggling.
Si se quiere comprender la Shoa, es un must.Si se quiere comprender de dónde venimos lo judíos laicos es un must.Si se quiere, si realmente se desea leer un buen ensayo, debes comprar este título.Lo acaban de reeditar en Acantilado.
Most important, especially in the shadow of the Shoah that followed TWJ's publication, Roth says that antisemitism will not cease until the Jews' 'host countries' achieve their own internal freedom and dignity, which seems to me an immeasurably profound truth.
An overview of Eastern European Jewry written in the late 1930s.An incredible poignant and melancholic glimpse of a society that exists no more and that has now vanished for ever.Roth has a wonderfully pithy and understated writing style.This book was as pleasurable to read as it was sad.
It's also a quick read.I like what this book has to say about love and what it has to say about boys and girls saving themselves and developing their virtues for the man/woman that they will marry.One part that was a little hard for me to follow was the amount of kisses and hugs.
But I'll be $%^ if that manipulative ending didn't make me tear up a little, at least until the nauseating final kiss and final line, "John Guido, I am hungry again!" Now that I'm done with this book, I can go collect my eyeballs from where they have been continually rolling to all four corners of the room.
This is now thought to be Gene Statton-Porter's last book and it is lovely, almost a child's allegory.
I discovered this book quite by accident as a young girl.I read it out of boredom since it didn't look very appealing to a 10 yr.old...it became the book that really started my love for reading.I still own that crumbling book and will always cherish it.
""The Magic Garden" (1927) was read to me by my mother.I later read it myself and to my children when they were young."The Magic Garden" is an enchanted place that one does not want to leave.This book was also my mother's favorite when she was a little girl.
It was pure luck when I found a Hutchinson edition of The Magic Garden.The Magic Garden is a sweet, short story (I finished it within 2 to 3 hours) about a young, wealthy girl--unloved and neglected--who runs away and meets an older boy; and both instantly finds love in each other.
So I read A Girl of the Limberlost and was enthralled and delighted until the second half of the book which was kind of dull and kind of unnecessary.Rambling, incoherent, melodramatic, and a great slog of a journey this is not a book I would ever recommend.
I think it was meant to be a modern take on a fairy tale.But the flat characters were hard to relate to, and the story was rather preposterous.
I love this author but this is not her best book.Usually I like her books because they give a hopeful image of the great possibilities in life.The pure motives and unmixed emotions of her characters are so rare as to be unrealistic.
This is one of the most pure love stories I have ever read.My copy is old and moldy but I try to read about every 5 years.( By the way I am highly allergic to mold so reading it always cost me but OH it is worth it.)This book was written by a pure heart and it infuses and encourages those of the same mind and heart.
I really enjoy the world and people that the Authoress creates.Gene Stratton-Porter creates perfect characters with high moral values and no evident flaws.In her own words, the authoress states that the characters she portrays "create a picture true to ideal life; to the best that good men and good women can do at their level best."
So beautiful!
This is one of my favorite books of all time.The story of such pure, innocent and selfless love is something that is missing in a lot of current books.Though I enjoy a wide variety of current books, romantic and otherwise, it is nice to go back and read The Magic Garden now and then.
It gets very preachy with 1926 stiff conduct and moral codes.I did enjoy the first part of the book when Amaryllis was five, rich, abandoned by everyone and desperate to be part of a family who cares.The ending was typical of the time but very disappointing.
This is classified as a youth book, but I found it a charming and sweet story.The innocence of the children, and the sweet tender love a child has for another.Gene Stratton-Porter wrote this book with Lee Thayer.Sometimes the books of today of an edge that forgets the innocence of a child.
Such a lovely story! Enjoyed it a lot!
a life changer
The English edition was translated by someone who left us only a set of initials to work with: M.N. But I am also interested in the spiritual notions of the 12th and 13th century expressed both in literature and in devotional texts such as the Mirror.
Yet her treatise of truth-telling lyrics lives on many centuries after the burning of her body, at the injunction of Catholic church heirarchy.
Strange and brilliant.
Not for those new to mysticism A bewildering, magical book, that is definitely not for those new to mysticism—if I had read this book a few years ago, I would not have been ready for it, and even now I’m certain much of its riches lay undiscovered to my current spiritual level.A book that neatly removes any and all middlemen, it is unsurprising that the Church found her and her message to be such a threat to institutional religion.
Some wild and astonishing moments, but mostly I was skimming over what felt inaccessible.
Sometimes I wondered if I wasn't "spiritual" enough to understand it.Sometimes I wondered if I didn't understand it because it was SO CRAZY.Sometimes I wondered if a different translation would make more sense to me, but again, it was written in English, so...I'm glad I have this reference tucked away in my brain.
Women look too far to find the real stories of spiritual women.Marguerite Porete is a wonderful spiritual leader whose writings come from this 13th C mystic.We listen to 'modern' women theologians or tv preachers and miss the wholeness of this Mystics thoughts.Come and drink at the well.
Tried very hard to find meaning in this.Finally gave myself permission to take it back to the library.Blech.
I would have if I thought outside the box (which you should in mystery novels), but the author did a good job in misleading the reader with a lot of events going on at the same time.Among Sherlock Holmes novels, this was my favorite.The rest was a collection of short stories which were interesting enough to read.
Such a fun journey with my favorite couple.
I rather like watching him prove his talents time and again.John Watson faithfully chronicles the adventures of Sherlock Holmes for us, as Holmes is called to many a case where it is never about the money, only the mental exercise.
Entertaining...would be good to read to an audience on dark and gloomy nights.
Brilliant.
“Someday, the true story may be told.”These were Sherlock Holmes’ last words as written on page 737 of Sherlock Holmes Complete Novels and Stories Volume 2, by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
am done , I feel so accomplished it took me tremendous time to finish this volume, over three months with 11 other novels in-between, you can't tackle Sherlock Holmes novels, you have to take it slowly, piece be piece, adventure by adventure, enjoy each one, and indulge yourself with the old Victorian British narrating of Doyle.
no matter where you were just opening the book takes you to another place and takes your mind with it to try and solve what problems that may lay .and picturing Watson the loyal companion,that no one would be ever lucky to have a friend like .
I didn't find the novels to be that enjoyable and after reading them found it difficult to find the motivation to continue the rest of the book.The short stories were much better, and especially enjoyed that two short stories were in the point of view of Sherlock Holmes, which was interesting to see.
My favourites
Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law are wonderful as Holmes and Watson, and their combined awesome can overcome Rachel McAdam's miscasting as Irene Adler.They take Irene Adler, an awesome character from A Scandal in Bohemia (Volume I) and degrade her into a silly former fling of Holmes' (does.
If you know anything about Sherlock Holmes apart from the Robert Downey Jr. movie versions, then you will have a good idea of what you are getting into when you pick up this book.The Valley of Fear is the best Holmes novel, in my opinion, and it was interesting to read the two stories in this collection that are told by Sherlock himself.
Amazing
Arthur Conan Doyle knew how to keep his audience guessing until the very end, and I think that’s what I like most about his stories.Also, near the end of our beloved stories, as if Doyle seems to portray Holmes as more human than previously; that even the greatest detective sometimes makes mistakes and doesn’t always know the full answer.
While I can imagine Doyle enjoying the challenge as a writer of the shifted perspective and the changed writing style of Holmes vs.
The edition consists of the possibly most well known novel 'The Hound of the Baskervilles', but the main part of the book contains a collection of the Sherlock short stories.
It presents seven inspiring Negro sermons in verse.A thought-provoking statement comes from the Forward: “African Americans are the only people in the whole world and history who really practice Christianity.” No one else has ever found in their hearts the gift of forgiveness, the Forward claims.
contains one of the most beautiful poems i've ever read..."Go Down Death (A Funeral Sermon)." i can only believe that Mr. Johnson *had* to have been overcome with Spirit when creating this phenomenal work.the clarity and strength of the images that spring up from his words is unbelievable.
What an incredible book of sermons!The imagery is incredible!loved this book, have read it twice so far
Johnson wrote seven free-verse poems on biblical themes to capture the rhythm, content, language and religious commitment of the African-American preacher.Johnson also wrote a celebrated prose introduction to the book in which he described the place of the preacher in African-American life and explained his decision not to use dialect in writing the poems.
Interesting filtering of Bible stories, through the voices of pre-civil rights black preachers, through Johnson's elegant but forceful poetry.I find it interesting that these are mostly Old Testament tales -- an angry, vengeful God. These preachers and their congregations were so profoundly sinned against; perhaps that made the idea of salvation for the good and hellfire for the evil particularly attractive.
This book took me back to the church of my childhood.Powerful, soul stirring sermons.I loved it.
A classic worth re-reading anytime.
In his preface, Johnson laments the passing of the African American revivalist preacher; he needn't have worried, for he has captured the eloquence and power of such sermons with the fervency of a true devotee.It is a must-read for any student of religious literature, jazz-age poetry, or African American history.
God's Trombones: Seven Negro Sermons in Verse by James Weldon Johnson (Viking Press 1969)(811).This is a transcription in verse form of seven famous and fabulous sermon topics in the Black church tradition.This is beautiful poetry.My rating: 7/10, finished 1975.
"When I start down the steep and slippery steps of death—When this old world begins to rock beneath my feet—Lower me to my dusty grave in peaceTo wait for that great gittin' up morning—Amen."
As Mr. Johnson writes in his introduction, his decision to write them as verse is to capture the lyrical, rhythmic style frequently used by African-American preachers.A note that I read an older edition of this book, which included both an introduction by Mr. Weldon and drawings by Aaron Douglas.
Here in poetic form, James Weldon Johnson has captured the rhythms and cadence of the black preacher."The Creation" was once memorized and recited at the graduations at segregated "colored" schools.This is the same man who wrote "Lift Every Voice and Sing", the Black National Anthem.This is a real African American classic.
It was like being in church (and suddenly made me wish to go).
My favorite short book of poetry ...Truly it's the sort of book that begs to be read aloud ...It's been a while since I first read these sermons in verse, but I plan to add to my list of books to be re-read on a regular basis this marvelous, slender volume ...
fast food
And Johnson's 1927 preface is a must read - it offers an an insightful and enjoyable explanation for his choice of the book's title.These sermons are placed in verse and read with the shear power, severity, eloquence, and emotion that is so inherent to the black folk tradition of early 20th century.
The preface is equally strong, making a case that black preaching is a folk art worthy of preservation.See if you can read "Go Down Death - A Funeral Sermon" without getting a lump in your throat, no matter what your theology.
I read the whole series as a teenager.Even though I haven't read them in years I still give 5 stars.Just for the memory.I was leaving with the Whiteoak when I read them for sure.
Funny and interesting to re-read something from your childhood.Little did I know that I would be living, for a while, not too far from the original Jalna.Interesting how life surprises you.I do understand why I loved the series madly when I was a younger…and I enjoyed the re-read experience for nostalgic reasons.
Lots of excitement in the Whiteoak family in this one.This was actually the first one written and I can see how she's developed the characters in her later writing.A little soap operaish but an enjoyable read.This is the first one I wouldn't recommend for kids, some more mature themes going on.
Quite enjoyable, wish I'd known this one wasn't the first in the series, will have to see if I can get the rest.
In this book there are as usual 3 generations of Whiteoaks living at Jalna.So interesting to see how my feelings towards a lot of the characters have changed since I read these books at 14-15 years of age.
Jalna is totally absorbing.Like all the Jalna novels, it is well written and its characters well drawn.The rascally matriarch celebrates her 100th birthday, and while no completely "happy endings" are in sight, Jalna and the Whiteoaks endure.
I first read a Jalna book when I was a teen.I was absorbed in the characters, albeit a bit surprised that my Mom had read this particular book as a teen - what with the relationships described.
Vintage series.This was my introduction to it.This is supposedly #7, but it was the first she wrote.Not exciting enough for me to want to read more.
As early as chapter two we learn the family history which is dominated by Adeline Whiteoak, now a 99-year-old grandmother.The old lady still dominates her family and loves them all even when they're misbehaving, which is most of the time.
It is a very beautiful book!Not the kind that become an obsession, but it is a book that touches your soul.The writer is very good, her style is so fresh and real that makes you feel like you are in the book too!I recommend this book.
Its been a long time since I read the Whiteoak saga and I am enjoying a revisit to the series.In my teens I was very interested in the Piers/Pheasant romance but now I find Piers irritating.But I still enjoy a good book version of a soap.
I read this book in Jr Hi and escaped into another time and place.I have read it more times than I can count and eventually bought the entire set at garage sales, booksales and the internet.I want to be part of the Whiteoak family!
A pleasant, slow but poignant novel of India/England/Canada.Perfect for summer reading.I'm starting some of her others (not a sequential series).
This is a very well written book in the Jalna series, one of my favorites.
I really enjoyed this book and look forward to reading others in the series!
I read and enjoyed the entire Whiteoaks of Jalna series as a teenager, beginning with The Building of Jalna and finishing with Centenary at Jalna.When my mother passed away in 1996, I discovered that somewhere along the way she had acquired the full set in paperback.
Book #7 in the Jalna series.This was the first Jalna book Mazo de la Roche wrote, although it is the seventh in terms of storyline chronology.Readers are introduced to Alayne, who marries Eden Whiteoak, a budding poet, after a short courtship.Eden also finds a surprising romantic interest.
Okay, I can understand that the author got better as time went by, but the point is, THIS book was what made people interested in reading more and I just don't really see why.I had originally intended to read all the books in order of their events (she wrote them out of chronological order), but probably won't finish now.
This fiction series follows the Whiteoaks family through about 100 years of their history living at Jalna, a property located near Lake Ontario, just west of Toronto.I read all 16 of the books one summer, when I was about seventeen years old.Each character is well developed, and the Ontario location is depicted faithfully.
After reading it I can understand why.So far, it is the strongest book so far.It is has the most serious plot and the most carefully drawn characters and an open ending that obviously invites more books.I'm ready to read the next one....
Good wholesome family story - read it more than once - compare to a good macaroni cheese casserole.Original publication date was way, way back. 1920s or '30s.
Masterpiece!
Read the whole series early in my teens and seeing them on here has tempted me to read them again
GoodGood good good don't miss this one.Stay on your toes.Good, good, good!Don't give up the ship, hang in there
The pivotal scene is when he reveals his true identity as a Russian soldier Grischa and not the German deserter Bjuscheff, he thinks that he will be saved only to realize that Schieffenzahn will restore his death penalty just for the sake of discipline.
An astonishing, devastating novel.It's been a very long time since I read anything that got under my skin so much.The last chapter is just the perfect finish for it.People can be terrible to one another and the state of the world is bad, but a thin thread of hope remains.
German book written in 1928, one of the earlier novels of WW I.A Russian POW escapes from captivity, and when recaptured is sentenced to death in a case of mistaken identity.Very interesting viewpoint on German attitude toward Jews (Zweig was Jewish).Very unusual and worthwhile book!
The infantry division which has custody prepares to prosecute him for his escape, but the paperwork winds up before the army commander, who decides that even though the prisoner is innocent, allowing any enemy soldier convicted of spying to live might be bad for German morale, and orders the death sentence to be carried out.The division commander, his chief legal advisor, his aide-de-camp, and others involved in the custody of this man are outraged, partly over the injustice of it, but also over the interference of Army in a matter that should have been handled at their level.
I think this is fantastic book
really good one.non-fiction myrmecology text but with strong communist/socialist political undertones.Published in 1930.a piece of history and worth a read if you are as obsessed with ants as I am!
It's a real shame the blurb for this book gives away the story.Fortunately, I hadn't read any blurb so had to guess what was coming.That aspect of the story made it really delightful, especially given how it played out.This is probably one of my favourite Pimpernel novels.
Warning: a little bit of language and perhaps more "romance" than parents might want.I plan to read this again and create a Clean Guide.Check back again or message me to request this be bumped to the top of the list!
I just love this series, I always have.In this one we get to see the unwitting hypocrisy of Monsieur Chambertin.The thing is, I always felt terribly sorry for Adèle.But there's no denying I raced through this with more excitement than I've felt for quite a while at any novel - loved it.
It spends most of its time examining an unknown side of the series' villain, Chauvelin.Usually portrayed as a calculating, cold-hearted executioner, the character's softer side is shown as the reader discovers he is a father.It was an excellent example of how to make a character--even a villainous one--sympathetic to the reader.
My reaction to Sir Percy Hits Back.I wish I could rewrite it.So, really this book is about a different set of characters and how their lives are affected by Sir Percy, which is fine I guess, but not what I was expecting.
Though this was quite an injoyable read, I didn't find it to be quite as reviting as some of Orczy's other books in her Scarlet Pimpernel series.I would suggest reading Orczy's more exhilerating books first such as, El Dorado, The Elusive Pimpernel, and of course, The Scarlet Pimpernel, before starting with this book.
This is great book!
Perfect little book of one story from Winnie the Pooh.
The classic story of a very rainy day, and a great time spent with Pooh, Piglet, and Owls (but I think Owl is more enjoyable to me than the little one.)
This is a nice simplification of Milne for very young children; my daughter loved it when she was 2 1/2 or so, still too young to care for the longer versions of the story.
Adorable is the best way to describe Milne's adventure in the Hundred Acre Wood.
In this delightful story, Piglet is aware that he needs help from his friends.He enumerates what each friend would do if caught in the same situation, i.e., stranded by heavy rains.Christopher Robin, Pooh, Kanga, Rabbit, Owl, and Eeyore would cope in different ways.Piglet demonstrates resourcefulness by sending a message in a bottle.
such a cute tale of piglet.
What her poems lack in complexity, they make up for in genuine emotion.She may tiptoe up and down the line of sentimentality, but as far as I'm concerned, she does no more than let one toe across the line.Her best work is along the theme of lost love.
These poems were one of the best I have read!Not only did they foreshadow greatest depths in meaning but also they made me flow with them on a rhythm of beautiful words and gorgeous tones!This poet is quite extraordinary in the way she made many things simple in an outstanding kind of way!
Sarah Teasdale ❤ my heart is hers, her poems mine.
Sarah Teasdale ❤️ my heart is hers, her poems mine.
This set comes with the poem that is rumored to be the one she wrote after her past love killed himself ("I Shall Not Care").Her poems seem familiar, but I don't think I've read her before.
her poem is description of regret and always wishing something else rather than what we have.there is lots of lovely poems but its not typical love, there is always something wrong, sad in her description.she is my favirote, there is strength and pain in her poems which is something i like.
This is some of the most beautiful poetry I've ever read!
My second of the four I read in two days.This continued to leave my heart in my throat the entire time.Oh, love.Love, you are trapped in these pages, like a bird, ever caught, at and ever flying free.
Love the last poem of the book, FROM THE SEA
When one reads this poetry, one gets struck by the way in which society moulds a poet.Teasdale was the recipient of the Columbia University Poetry Society prize for her Love Songs in 1918 – why?
I think I'm in love with Sara.Some of the more memorable lines include "Lost as a candle lit at noon, / Lost as a snow-flake in the sea." and "A leaf borne onward by the blast, / A wave that never finds the shore."
This is a superbly written and extremely detailed history of the early days of modern Spiritualism.To this end, many mediums agreed to work with interested scientists, thus psychical research also began.This book also discusses the work of an early psychical researcher, William Crookes.
Interesting
Well written.He really tries to be objective.But Conan Doyle was a believer, and even in his writings you get the suspicion that most of these people were con artists.
I also really enjoyed the plot, however predictable, and the use the girls make of their new survival/wilderness skills learned while trying to get more badges (I don't want to spoil here, but the last adventure Joey has is a good example of that).
This is the first of a collection of Chalet School books that I found in an Oxfam shop yesterday.I was instantly transported back 20+ years to when I first read some of them.In this one, we have a princess join the school, just as the head hires an unpleasant Matron.
One of my favourite books in this series.The fact that she is a princess has been kept secret from her schoolmates, except for Joey Bettany.Her cousin, who would be heir to the throne after her father, the Crown Prince, kidnaps her from her school in order to force her father to give up his position as the Crown Prince.
I won't labour this point but I am so looking forward to Dr Jem Russell in particular and the Chalet school adults discovering the germ theory of disease.This is good stuff!I'm very much looking forward to The Head Girl of the Chalet School
Brent-Dyer somehow manages to embed this story, rife with courtly intrigue and politics, into the daily concerns of the Chalet School.There's also something to be said for how surprisingly feminist Princess is, for a book published in 1927.Brent-Dyer's heroine, Joey Bettany, comes wonderfully to the fore: her mad rescue of Elisaveta from one of Cosimo's plots (for mad it is) nevertheless establishes her as a strong, effective character.
One of my favourite Chalet School books (I love almost all of the ones I've read).Brent-Dyer connects a number of plotlines (Elisaveta, Matron, Madge) and makes them very much part of one term - there's no disjointed sense of 'this happened.Then that happened.Term ended' that sometimes characterises school stories.
An early Chalet School book, it is one of the most beloved in the series, but one of the least interesting, in my opinion.In my opinion, the best books in the series deal with the adjustment to school life of a misfit girl, perhaps one who is lonely, arrogant, peculiar, etc.
The very first one I read...I wasn't a huge fan, but later on I picked up Summer Term at the Chalet School to give the series another go, loved it, and the rest is history.:) I of course read Princess again but still wasn't a huge fan.
I REALLY enjoyed reading this lovely Girls Gone By edition of one of my favourite Chalet School books.I could not even tell you how many times I have read 'Princess' over the years, but what a lovely treat to read this beautiful uncut, unabridged version, after reading the Armada version so many times.
In Elsaveta we find a really nice character who has to live a very resticited life until she comes to the Chalet School.Joey is to the fore as Elsaveta's friend but not in a pushy fashion.Joey has to come to terms with changes in her own life that will be hard for her to get used to.
"The Force of Circumstance" is a story which tells about a man, Guy, and his wife, Doris.Eventually Doris returns to England because she can't accept the idea that her husband has had an intimate relationship with another woman.To my mind, this novel deals with the ability to overcome prejudices and accept the hard life challenges.
Excellent book about life in the far east during the days of empire!!
According to the historian at Raffles Hotel Maugham use to ask for a table to be set up behind a frangipani tree out in the courtyard where he could overhear stories of intrigue, lust and murder.
This is a collection of short stories about the English abroad during colonial times.Overall I thought it was an interesting depiction of colonial life at the time and reading it was an easy way to pass the time while waiting for dinner to cook (each story is 30-40 pages long).
Six wonderful stories full of drama and tension, ideally read while lazing on the verandah at sundown, sipping a gin pahit or stengah
Currently in this play. I'm playing Big Mary!
Period show business play that still holds truths for today.
Olga, the pianist chaffs at playing tin pan alley after having studied classical technique for fifteen years under Kolijinsky.Kaye is fleeing from a dream gone sour.Kaufman deftly incorporate several side stories that enich the primary tale of Terry Randall’s pilgrimage.What may seem like a dated story, coming from 1936, still has relevance for today.
The level of sophistication is also well suited teenage actors in that the characters have sufficient depth to offer a challenge to their developing skills.The play itself is simply a compilation of all known clichés about life in the theatre as it contains starving actors fiercely competing for parts, banal dialogues, two-faced critics, vulgar audiences, roués who prey on innocent young actresses, and bankrupt troupes.
This is the literal struggle of a Broadway actor trying to be noticed.All aspiring actors can relate.Doing this play in school next week and playing as Ellen Fenwick, not a huge role but like I said this play is about the struggle of at least getting a role you want or a huge role.
ok story of wanna be actresses in NY
Unlike other biography's about Abe Lincoln that tell about him being a president this one goes deeper.though out this book it foreshadows that he would become the president but even to the end never said it.This book is just plainly about Abe growing up.
In his book "Abe Lincoln Grows Up", noted author Carl Sandburg examines the heritage, birth and early years of America's 16th President.He presents young Abe to the reader in the context of extraneous events, notable people and western lifestyle of the time to paint a portrait of the rustic life Lincoln must have known in his youth.
Early years of Abraham Lincoln growing up in midwest US in its midgrowth as a nation, with log cabins on one hand and slavery on other on southern plantations.Lincoln grew up around the border in Illinois and went on to be the silent great man whose great speech post US civil war and bringing in emancipation was then derided for being not long enough, not flowery enough.
i read this as a child and it inspired a lifelong fascination with lincoln.i found his complete 5 volume set of the war and prairie years on ebay will try and give it a go in the next couple of months.
This was an easy book to read and to understand.I personally was not overly interesting in the topic, but for those of you who like reading about history will really enjoy this book.This book does a good job of portraying the idea that anyone, even the poorest of poor, can do anything if they set their minds to it.
I finished this wonderful book.
Abe Lincoln one of the best presidents of all time.Carl Sandburg has made a some insight to Lincoln's childhood.When it does focus on Lincoln, it teaches you about parts of his life you might not know about, like what happened to him during his childhood.
This is a beautifully written and illustrated book.This slim volume is a reprint of the first twenty- seven chapters of Carl Sandburg's "Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years".These early chapters were selected because it was felt that they would be most interesting to young readers, so the book is usually found in the youth non-fiction area.
A short vignette of Andrew Jackson is included, suggesting his influence and inspiration for young Lincoln.It doesn't hurt that much is made of Lincoln's reading and love of books.Its age is reflected in the use of the N word when referring to slaves.
We just finished reading this book.I really liked it because it's about one of my favorite CHRISTAN men in history.It starts from when he was born to before he went to New Salem.There's is also another book about him that we just finished too that is about him in New Salem.
A great read that gives us information on one of the united states presidents.This book tells of Abe Lincoln's life as a young child.From reading this book I now have a better understanding of young Lincoln's life.
This reprint is taken from a portion of Carl Sandburg's Pulitzer Prize winning 1926 biography of our 16th President (Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years).For a child interested in Abraham Lincoln himself, this book is essential.
works as a post facto campaign biography.weems' biographies of george washington and francis marion come up as some of yung abe's preferred reads, and there's a (lightly) ironic echo of that secular hagiography happening here.anyway good if you want to know what cows and people were dying from in 1820s indiana, and also if you are stealing texture for your own work
For a great panoramic view of Bible doctrines this is a great read
This is an outstanding book written by Lewis Sperry Chafer, the founder and former president of Dallas Theological Seminary.Each of the 52 chapters is concise, clearly outlined, and packed with scripture.If every Christian just had a basic understanding of each of these vital doctrines, how much better off would the church of Jesus Christ be today!
A great introduction to biblical doctrine.
This is a great survey study of theology.Not perfect, but really, really solid and approachable.Worthwhile for any small group, or individual, who is interested in beholding Christ through Scripture.A wonderful, lovingly written tool.
A truly interesting and easy to comprehend look at Trobriand Islander' laws and custom.However, it is more of an overview of general practice, including a few case examples.
A superb gift of a book as far as lyrical beauty and storytelling prowess.Hemingway of the Caribbean, if you'll allow.The beautifully rendered patois makes this book nearly qualify as a foreign language and encourages readers to slow down.Incredible imagery and often very funny.
This is especially thematic in the title story "Tropic Death", in which a middle class black child, Gerald Bright, is repeatedly interrupted from his hobby of staring at the sea to be immersed in the problems of the poor children around him and the troubled reunion of his mother and father.
An essay about reading and critique by the author of one of my all time favorites: A Room of One's Own. If you have any interest in the place of women in writing, Woolf set the bar for how to talk about it more than eighty years ago.
Grade: 90% / 'A-'
Funny, sad, outrageous...a brutally honest snapshot of Moscow and moscovites, not without some unclean forces in the mixture...More of a satire than M&M.
A wonderful recollection of childhood memories from a kid that will become Natzume Soseki's student.The life of a child in Japan before the first world war, so beautifully written that even the cruelest moment seem to be happy.Una meravigliosa raccolta di ricordi d'infanzia di quello che diventerá poi uno studente di Natzume Soseki.
It's a good book.Russell as usual have this astonishing wisdom about everything and great ideas.But regarding childhood and human being development, nowadays we have more updated knowledge.
The "wars" referred to in the synopsis are those that divided the church and, eventually, led to the almost complete eradication of superstitions and pagan practices that continued under the more lax provisions of the Catholic (papist) and other churches.Aside from all this, the story is engaging and Mr Buchan has a very distinctive and somewhat old-fashioned writing style.
Gave up after 30% - so much time spent trying to understand the Scots spoken that I was beginning to hate the book.
Buchan's character development is perceptive and careful, which always makes a story more worthwhile.When I can find myself empathetic even to the antagonists in the story without compromising my loyalty to the protagonist, I believe I have found an author who understands mankind.
I'm a young minister in a Reformed Church.This book is terrifying.It's real.I think I should change my name to David Sempill.Don't read it.It's too good.
4.5
I had read this novel many, many years ago and the pervasive atmosphere of the setting has stuck with me through hundreds of other books I've read since then.
I loved this book, but I have been lucky and have read Sir Walter Scott's early novels on Scotland.Such a nasty & intolerant period.The story is based on fact - from a pamphlet found by Buchan - but he changed the hero significantly & added local colour.
Once I got past the Scottish speech patterns, I could just get involved in the story and deep issues; love, church over King, application of the Word in life, Reformed theology gone very wrong.I love most of Buchan's books and this one is different than the others.I actually had to look up words!
But this is largely an adventure of the spirit as a 17th century Presbyterian minister wrestles with pagan stirrings in his own session: the disapproval of the Kirk authorities: the rights and wrongs of warring factions and not least his own conscience.
Best book I've read in a long time.
The story seems like a version of Hawthorne's "Young Goodman Brown" set in the Scotland of several centuries ago.I would have given it 4 stars but there is a lot of Scottish dialect and the version I had, although it included a glossary, was not helpful enough to understand everything.
This book is about the struggles of a Presbyterian minister in eighteenth century Scotland.I found the style and subject matter absolutely fascinating, but there is a quite a bit of dialogue written in Scots' dialect, so parts of it were very slow to read.
This book is truly awesome.At the start, you do assume that things will work out alright, but the bleakness of the ending shocked even me.I loved the fact that it was not predictable, and adored many of the characters, and admired the ending.
In the Scottish Borders, a new minister finds himself caught between loyalty to his own Kirk and the de facto government of the King, trying to do the best he can for the people of his parish.At the same time, he discovers that some of his church elders are performing devil worship in the woods.
There was a lot of dry dialogue and a bit of a language barrier.As I continued it got better and better until I was reading quite a bit every day.It's both encouraging and thought provoking.How cool is that?) and not too perfect, leaving room for moral dilemmas.Definitely read it.
A powerful story (a favorite of CS Lewis) about a young and idealistic minister, David Sempill, set in 17th century Scotland with the Monmouth rebellion as the backdrop.As David grows into ministering to his congregation he finds a coven of witches and warlocks being led by the most powerful and influential of his flock.
First published in 1927, Witch Wood is a mid-17th century tale about a newly ordained minister taking up his duties in the Scottish Borders parish of Woodilee where he discovers evidence of witchcraft, whilst the unrest that accompanies and follows warfare adds further local complications.
This book is fabulous, really great reading.It's about 17th century Scotland: very careful, beautiful, and haunting descriptions of place, thick renditions of the Scottish accent.It seems this was John Buchan's favorite novel.
I must buy copies of the William books for my keeper shelves - delightfully refreshing.
I'm filing these under children's books, but I can't help wondering if they are really more for the grown ups.Great fun anyway.In this one the parents seem a bit more human, so I guess RC was fleshing them out as she went along.Love the humour.
William, man. So good.
Was given this book as a child, this character is hard to hate.......
Ive read half.My goodness this is a masterpiece.Superb writing in all essence.No one writes better than Istrati in terms to seek greatness within modesty..Ive Finished it.Beautiful writing skills.
I´ve read half.My goodness this is a masterpiece.Superb writing in all essence.No one writes better than Istrati in terms to seek greatness within modesty..I´ve Finished it.Beautiful writing skills.
I had only read one other Zane Grey novel, namely "Riders of the Purple Sage" which I enjoyed.Zane Grey, in my experience with only two books does the unthinkable in inserting a sensitive romance in to his novels.
fun easy one day read
But the one thing that was more distracting than anything else, was the unbelievable number of times that the characters "ejaculated" something.
I read this book when I was about 12 because it was in my Grandma Frampton's bookcase when I was down in Provo for a visit.I still have the old book, but it's falling apart.A lot of memories came flooding back as I read through it.
Ben Ide is a wild horse hunter in northern California, who has had his reputation tarnished by rumors that he has become a rustler.When Ina Blaine, Ben's childhood sweetheart, comes home from being away at school for four years, she finds everything changed.
Denham Dobie is a unique and unforgettable character.
Rose Macaulay's writing is smart, understated, and deliriously funny in a saucily deadpan sort of way - she had me at the dedication (which I'd quote here but my mom has the book because it was so fabulous I needed to share it with someone pronto.) Denham, the truculent, self-reliant, laconic lead character, has to be one of my favorite female protagonists; I can't help thinking she should be played by the British actress Miranda Hart if this were a movie.
Denham is an interesting character.She struggles to be herself and live her life the way she wants to but finds that in the end, she must conform to the society that she has been placed into.Interesting perspective on 'high' society.
When Arnold suggests she try this, she replies:"'The only thing I've read lately,' Denham said, 'is that book on dog diseases.Was Macaulay a young socialite among the London literary set, or did she shun publicity?An independent woman combined with meddling relatives and a husband who cannot fulfil her needs regardless of what he does all combine to make Crewe Train one of the best novels I have ever read.
It’s not The Towers of Trebizond, but it’s still Rose Macaulay and therefore better than most.You may hide yourself in perfect happiness in a hole in the ground, Macaulay tells us, but love will find some mean way to drive you out of it.
3.5 Denham is a young girl who is bounced from place to place.As she makes her way to adulthood, we see her come into her own, no matter the cost to her family or reputation.A charming and witty book of England in the mid-century.
Every boy should read this book-it will teach him what is means to be a man.
There is no gray area in this story, which I believe makes it an excellent choice for literature to be put into the hands of children.
It follows the journey of Sir Constant as he travels through the challenges of the Christian journey.The writing is wonderful and readable, though old style; when Sir Constant met Christ several times throughout his journey my heart beat faster.Some of the challenges and things he faces are so real.
This is one of the best Lamplighter Theatre productions yet!
An absolutely brilliant adventure.Very similar to Pilgrim Progress, but less allegorical and more theatrical.The ending will tear at your heart, and warm it at the same time.I definitely want to re-read this book!
Against the things of this world that try to rob us of our relationship with Christ.The key to Constant overcoming his enemies is to keep focused on the Vision of the Face.This book was also a very good reminder of the enemies I face every day.
I loved this book !The message in it is so good.This is something I will definatly want my children to read someday !
Saint Paul tells us to put on the armor of God so that we may be strong in the Lord and able to stand our ground against the attacks of the devil.I HIGHLY recommend this book--it will greatly enrich the way you envision your daily walk with and toward God.
The Vision of the Face is still as precious, the Way as Splendid as back then.And the stages of the Way are certainly easier to identify with.So glad I managed to find a copy!
I heartily agree.Join a young knight, Sir Constant, on his journey to the eternal kingdom, known as the City Splendid.Sir Constant makes mistakes as well as wins mighty battles for his King.A must-read for any weary pilgrim in search of his King and the wonderful eternal City Splendid!
Incidentally, the first time I read John Buchan's The Dancing Floor, in 2010, was also during a Christmas break.Moreover, I appreciate its articulation by Sir Edward Leithen, whose general sobriety makes its romanticism stand out all the sharper without veering into melodrama.I think perhaps that's why, even after 6 years, I can still say I love this book so much.
Enjoyable.
Not one of Buchan's best
A bit of a disjointed read, with the middle section sagging heavily.But as ever with Buchan an interesting portrait of the era - before and after WWI - and class.Hence the intro by Wicker Man director Robin Hardy, which provides a solid discussion and context.
Eerie and quite beautiful at moments, this is one of Buchan's best books.
It was a delightful surprise to find something really interesting and quite dark (not that I don't love historical romance).There is a door at each end of his room and beyond that door stretching in both directions is another bedroom exactly like the one he is in.Each year he has this same dream but each year the Thing gets one room closer.
As always, really enjoyed this novel.Despite Buchan's stereotyping at times, such a powerful story of Christianity vs.paganism.
One of Buchan's best!This book is mystic in nature combined with action and a great plot.This would make a superb movie.
What superstition can do to people!Quite an adventure.I enjoyed this book.
Weird story plot but nice writing style.
One of my favorite adventure books that i have read since childhood.For anyone interested in the Arab world it is a MUST.No way around it.Incredible writing, unbelievable action, made all the more intense by the fact that it DID happen.Great introduction to Arab culture, habits, and viewpoints.All around a phenomenal book.
Beautiful prose as well as everything else about it!
Consequently it has many different variants on place names, often fails to clarify the vast array of characters in the Arab army or the overall development of the war.At the same time he worked diligently with Allenby to ensure that the the two groups were fully coordinated and the Turks eventually pushed out of the Middle East.
4 1/4 stars
#10
T E Lawrence is a fascinating character
Good book!
I absolutely love the movie Lawrence of Arabia (not just cause there are no women in it), and I'm quite intruiged by his writings, so I have to get to them.
Can never get enough of the life of Lawrence.
Truly astounding.The most impressive set of psychological experiments I've ever encountered.If I had been required to read this while doing neuro at Stanford, I would have had a much better education.So many of his ideas are still not appreciated - but should be.
as freud said, too basic.
Easy to understand about individual psychology Nice book.
Highly recommended.
What a amazing book to read,and its very easy to understand.
While those casual meanings are all well and good, I wish we'd reconnect with pragmatism as a philosophy, and along with that what it has to say about matters that Dewey discusses in this book, like defining the public, exploring the relationship between the public and the state, providing room for conflict and a diversity of legitimate interests, etc.
Dewey argues that mass technologies - industrialism and mass communications - pretty much necessitate the death of citizenship in favor of consumerism, by weakening strong ties and empowering weak ones, while not being blind to the many advantages of the mass age.
This book has so much to offer!!!Dewey is so so optimistic about the public, but I got behind it tbh.If you're uncomfortable with seeing the world through an ideological lens, read up!It may be impossible for his propositions to ever become a reality but a girl can dream ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
You know a book is good when your very first thought upon finishing it is "...damn." And that's "damn" pronounced as "dayum," as in "daaaaayum that's a good book."
This book has so much to offer!!!Dewey is so so optimistic about the public, but I got behind it tbh.If you're uncomfortable with seeing the world through an ideological lens, read up!It may be impossible for his propositions to ever become a reality but a girl can dream \_(ツ)_/
timely as ever!
The content and some of the chapters are a little bit longer (so are better for older children), but are much closer to actual bible content.Wait a little bit for them to have a longer attention span for them to get the most out of it.Reading this again with my son, still very enjoyable and a great prep bible before going straight into actual bible readings.
It simplifies the bible stories - but not so much that it takes away educating my children in scripture knowledge.The illustrations are just enough to help create an idea of the stories but not so much that our sons get distracted from a true scriptural education.Post Edit: I just LOVE this children's version of the Bible.
I am reading this book with my daughter and so far it is captivating, true to scripture, and easy enough for a preschooler to understand.
I loved reading these stories when I was a child.It has over 700 pages with stories and resources at the end including questions, colorful maps, and old black and white photographs of Palestine.I still have my copy.The cover on the copy I own is different.
This is a wonderful storybook of the Bible for all ages with illustrations that are bold and colorful.The stories are biblically accurate with verses cited and not dumbed down like many others like it.A must read for families!
I do share his hate for humanity, Amen to that...Because I do not belong to the "herd" and am not suffering from "mob mentality", I will give this book 3 stars opposed to the conformist Democratic men of goodreads.com and there conformist ratings of 4-5 stars (Mencken is looking up from hell, nodding in approval for my act of revolutionary individualism and intellect, I am a true rebel in the social networking community of sheep!...I need a drink).
Here the enfant terrible Mencken takes on democracy, the ostensible rule of the "common man."A bit tongue in cheek, of course, but clever and bitingly written.We won't see newspapermen this great again, alas!This edition is nicely annotated.Some of the period references are obscure.And democracy is highly overrated.
Yes, the mob is unfit to rule but so is the king, whether he be a philosopher or not.Despite all of the foregoing, Mencken puts his finger squarely on the fundamental weakness of democracy: the fact that vast numbers of people (the electorate) are self-serving and are susceptible to being bamboozled by slick, simple answers to complex issues; they are comfortable when being told what they already want to believe, truth be damned.
He clearly had his finger on the pulse of what is wrong with both the US governmental system as well as the general populace and their role in "democracy." Mencken in no way places the blame for our democratic ills solely upon government officials, but he evenly spreads it across the general "citizen" as well.In short, Mencken doesn't seem to have a whole lot of faith in humanity...and I don't blame him.It was incredible to see the parallels of issues from the time of writing (1926) until today.
You could replace the names of the past politicians Mencken mentions with today's current crop and the book wouldn't miss a beat.Also, I found the last section very prescient, considering I finished it shortly after the Boston Marathon bombings: "I have spoken hitherto that democracy may be a self-limiting disease, like measles.
Mencken's insights serve as a reminder to that fact and while the organizations may have changed and the leaders all have new names they are in essence the same.
Perfect election year reading.Mencken was extremely well read, was a devotee of Nietzsche, and, for all his crude language about the "booboisie," had actually put a lot of thought into the dangers of mass democracy.
Great book.Awesome guy.Reading this reminds you that democracy has ALWAYS been fundamentally broken, it's not a recent development.
Many admire Mencken for his anti-plebeian elitism.This book is full of it, to be sure, but his is the sort of elitism one might find in an intelligent but immature 15-year-old boy; not a supposedly well-read grown man.On the whole, I found the book unimpressive, predictable and boring.
I would recommend this book to anybody interested in reading about theories of democracy or early 20th century U.S. History.I did enjoy reading this though and definitely recommend it.
Mencken at his finest.He inspires a deep cynicism in the reader regarding all the rituals and affectations of democracy: voting, politicking, campaigning, and the general idea of social betterment by democratic participation.Democracy may not be the worst form of government, but it's certainly the most humorous.
He is to be forgiven, therefore, for not suggesting another form of government which might lack the manifest defects of democracy he describes.My opinion is that democracy's one great merit, the fact that makes it preferable to other forms of government, is that it is an imperfect, but surest safeguard against tyranny.
This is a short book, but a dense and difficult read, especially since it guts America's favorite cultural brass ring- Democracy.And I will get to it.Mencken's premise that civilizations would be better served by a monarchy over democracy will stir the bile of every American patriot.
In most cases, perhaps, he is averse to sell his vote for cash in hand, but that is mainly because the price offered is too low.The art of politics, under democracy, is simply the art of ringing it.There is the art of the demagogue, and there is the art of what may be called, the demaslave.
If my opinion is any indication, however, I would say that Mencken does succeed in his broadest aim: to make the reader think critically about democracy and democratic society.
I received a free copy of this book through Goodreads Firstreads.H.L. Mencken was always one of my father's favorite writers, but until now I'd never read his works.
I would like to know more about the history of the book; it reads as if Mencken was obligated to write it by contract or just needed money.If you've never read Mencken please do, but you can skip this book.
Funny montage of landed bigots.
However, Huxley succeeded to create some pretty literary artifices: behavior anticipation due to character reprezentation; a (super)thorough (psychological, moral, physical) portrait for the main character; emphases on key words or key human traits - helpful for main idea understanding.(There's a very subtle link between Huxley's Grace(s) and Eliade's story 'Three Graces'.
It follows Haggard's usual formula for the Quatermain series--a skeptical Allan seeking to rationally explain what cannot be explained fully without recourse to spiritualism and the occult.Would that Haggard have lived to write many more, this being one of three, I believe, of his posthumously published novels.
This is the first book of H.Rider Haggard's I've read.I can see how this became the first of the Lost World genre of books.The main character is Allan Quartermain, the character Sean Connery played in the League of Extraordinary Men. Haggard's hero also became the inspiration for Indiana Jones.
UKUPNA OCENA (overall rating) ★★ 2/5 starsRadnja (story) ★★Ideja (plot idea) ★★★Okruženje (setting) ★★★Pripovedanje (writing style) ★★Likovi (characters) ★★UTISAK (summary) - početak je obećavao još jednu avanturu Alana Kvotermejna ali nedoslednost u priči, jednoličan stil pisanja, isprazni i ponavljajući dijalozi istih takvih likova kao i dosadna radnja čine knjigu jedva čitljivom do kraja.
Read several of Haggard's books and enjoyed them all
Recommended fiction, especially for those interested in things Enochian.
It erases the borders between real and illusive, makes you reconsider or, at least, think about our role in the world.Despite the fact some general knowledge of alchemy would be here of help, even without those you swim with great pleasure through the waves of the novel.
Meyrink is always a wild ride.Some compare him to Lovecraft, but I think his work is much deeper; less concerned with creeping you out and more geared towards slipping the reader into a sort of dream state.I remember being thrilled by it, though I don't really know why it's considered "decadent."
If you're into the occult at all, or into alchemy in its various forms, or if you're interested in the story of Doctor John Dee, you may want to try this.It is a book you need to read slowly because it is so incredibly full, but well worth it in the end.
Having just finished a small survey of Christian esoteriscm in the Elizabethan age which featured a section on Dee himself I couldnt imagine anyone more capable of enjoying this book than me.Just be prepared to do some serious research, I cant imagine reading this before the internet.
Timeless.
One of my favourite dramas mainly because it breaks the constraints that social barriers hold while dealing with society in a very eco-feminist way.
Horrible play!
Might want to teach this for IB!Awesome story...very relevant to Thailand!
A marvelous read
The first play of Tagore I ever read.I was young, perhaps 14 when I read it.It engaged me, but went completely over my head.Upon re reading it many years later, I was struck by the beautiful metaphors used to tell the story.
I feel plays are much better than this...totally disappointed.
i think it is the interesting books
Best
4.5/5
A great book for kids
This novella was written by Edgar Rice Burroughs for younger readers.It is far from Burroughs' best writing.I don't think Burroughs was a racist, but this story has more racial stereotypes in it than just about any of his other works.The story itself plods along in a very predictable fashion.
This is an attempt by Burroughs to write a juvenile book and it really didn't work.I didn't care for it at all.The edition I have is from Wildside Press.Someone who is collecting ERB and wants to have a complete run of the Tarzan stories might want it.
I liked this book.I would have loved it when I was younger.I can't wait to read it with my son.
This was written just a few years before the appearance of the first comic book sidekick, Robin the Boy Wonder, and it was probably meant to serve the same purpose.It seems their mothers were twin sisters and one married an American and stayed in the States while the other one married a distant cousin of Lord Greystoke and settled in England.
I've been borrowing this book from the library for many many years.But it's something that makes sense (no matter how far fetched it sounds....) and it's something that I'd *like* to believe.A regular person can easily understand the text; it's not all heavy-handed scientific terms.An enjoyable read.
The mathematics of dreams, time and eternity.The problem is the mixing of the dreaming subjec with the human history as a whole.If a singular person can dream the future, he will not predict only his own future, but of whole humanity.
In such a model, real time would be the unattainable border of this infinite series.What this reviewer regarded as "mind-boggling philosophical statements" I found to be charming intuitive gems:"Evolution has worked for possibly eight hundred million years towards the development of the brain.
Everything is broken.
An extremely interesting read which appears to me to have a very human story behind it.It is also very much a book of its period, a febrile time of war, spiritualism, the 20th century scientific revolution and the exploration of the human mind.
This is an amazing book.It encourages you to record your dreams and look for predictions.Really challenges out everyday view of time!A classic.
Absolutely loved this book, gives a brand new perspective on dreams and reality.
What a fascinating book, one that is now mostly forgotten but that inspired a generation of early- and mid-twentieth-century writers, including Flann O'Brien, J.R.R. Tolkien, Verlyn Flieger, and, indirectly, the writers of the TV series Lost.Dunne observed that he had precognitive dreams, but with a twist.
These later appeared in book form in the 1920s under the titles, “The Heart of London,” and “The Spell of London.” This book, which was first published in 1927, collected his essays written when he took a motor trip around England to discover the English countryside.
Radio was not a household thing in those days, and the reception wasn't too good, but still, its hard to imagine the world he traveled in.The writing is good, and he finds human interest in all sorts of things, and helps the reader visualize the past as he goes through historic area.
The first paragraph of this book hooked me: "I believed that I was dying in Palestine.Once home, he traveled to as many towns and cities as he could, recording all he saw in 1927.He wrote twelve travel books.I don't find Morton as funny as Bryson, but they do have similar outlooks.
I prefer Morton's In Search of London--written only a few years after World War II, it alternates historical anecdotes about buildings and locations in London with descriptions of the damage done by German bombing.Nevertheless, I recommend this, as well as any of Morton's other works, to anyone who enjoys this sort of travel writing.
c1920 - What a lovely little book and I can see why it is still in print."Weymouth has not yet recovered from the surprise that George III discovered it as a health resort" Brilliant!
Quaint, folksy ... and dated. Yawn.
A thoroughly enjoyable journey around England in 1926.H.V.Morton writes well and describes things so clearly you could almost be there.I look forward to reading many more of his books.
In Search Of England by H.V. MortonAfter many years abroad, H.V. Morton set out one morning in the mid-1920s, in his Morris two-seater car, on a tour of his home country.This book was published on 2nd June 1927.One British newspaper described the book as "travel writing at its best.The best travel writing inspires the reader to want to go and visit the places described.
For example, he enters Wigan, "expecting the worst" and finds Norfolk, "the most suspicious county in England." Despite his many stereotypes and personal biases though, he is generally enthusiastic and willing to be pleased, as he strikes up endless conversations and searches out people and places of interest.As the author says himself, it is a curious characteristic of the English scenery to change in a few miles.
Morton's travelogue is the ne plus ultra of travel writing.He's the master of the genre, and his work here is the measure of it.Morton has earned his popularity by capturing the sights, sounds, and splendour of England as it was in the 1920's with aplomb.
And there is much in the reporting of human nature that reminds me at least that the things that truly deeply matter in human life don't change - and even last night sitting in my local village pub hearing snatches of conversation what concerns us all doesn't change much either.In the final pages of the book Morton recounts the vicar of a small village talking "progress" such as modern methods of communication, in this instance newspapers, which bring 'the latest murders every Sunday morning.
Old fashion but well done and enjoyable.
I enjoyed accompanying Morton around England.This was a relaxing read, and a bit of a travel classic.Apparently, you can still get a free glass of beer at that monastery he mentions...
Read at the same time as another book.A good read.I was born in Manchester, England and lived in Britain until 1977 and although I have travelled back many times to many different places, I enjoyed his idiosyncratic style of writing and learned many new things.
I didn't enjoy this as much as his 'pilgrimage' books, 'In the Steps of The Master' and 'In the Steps of St Paul'.The style falls into that dangerous area between contemporary and old enough to be classic (as George Borrow).So, not really recommended.
Yes...it was amazing.Anyone who loves England, especially England in the 1920s, will thoroughly enjoy this stroll down memory lane.Too bad we can't go back to this era, and be a tourist in the countryside and cities, and follow Mr. Morton on his fabulous journey.I will re-read this travelogue again and again.
A must have for England Travelers.
I give this book a 5 because it was the first bookI ever read about Genghis Khan and Central Asia when I was 11.It was written in 1927 and is a "Histography" book based on The Secret History.But, for me it is a great book.
Although this edition is likely quite dated, it was extremely well written and enjoyable to read.It is not loaded with cumbersome details and makes for a good beginner book on the subject.More recent books, however, would likely give a better list of sources for those looking for more detail.
A must read for anyone interested in the great khan...
First published in 1927.I probably read in 1950's.This book made me a lifelong fan of Genghis Khan.
The best book written about Genghis Khan I've read thus far.
I like Lamb's style because the book reads more like a novel or chronicle than a biography.I mostly enjoyed this book, though, because I didn't know anything about the Mongols and their first leader, Genghis Khan.
though no real written records of Genghis Khan was ever made, just notes from observors from foreign lands.the story of the khan is an amazing story of a man wanting to unify all his people.his compassion, insite, determination and fortitude is astounding and his short comings as well.this one is an amazing book.
history in story, I like Lamb's well written and attractive style, Genghis Khan was soft for his people & rigid or we may say ruthless for other people, Lamb expressed his childhood habit to his old age actions and starting Mongol kingdom
Simply written but a great historical read.It is full of facts but it is put in a story context so that it is easy to understand.He really follows what actually happened.Very interesting!
I got this book as part of my Easton Press "Library of Military History" and had only a general knowledge of who Genghis Khan was.I found this story fascinating and well-written and enjoyed the way the author gave a fairly complete, well-rounded description of Genghis from his early years through his creation of one of the most terrifying military forces of ancient history.
Harold Lamb was fascinated by the people and history of Asia which greatly influenced his fictional short stories, many featuring Cossacks or Mongols as heroes.His fascination just as greatly influenced his string of popular nonfiction histories, of which Genghis Khan was the first, written in 1927.
This is an author I've loved since before my literary studies.The journal documents a writer's struggle with terminal illness.I admire the tenacious spirit that shines through.
Since I was heading back to NZ, I thought it might be fitting to pack Katherine Mansfield's journal to take with me -- I didn't realise that this journal is made up mostly of material from the last years of her life where she is ill, worried about her writing and in large amounts of pain.
Heartbreaking. Enigmatic.
there's a real anguish there about whether or not it's good enough, or whether or not she's writing enough, and it feels so strange to find a comrade who wrote those words in her journal 90-some-odd years ago...Anyway, it was interesting, and I'm reading her short stories, and they're very readable and real, and I like them even better.
It's old-fashioned.The language is great.The characters varied.I think the age of the story just makes it a challenge to really connect with this one.
It is a series featuring barnyard animals Freddy the pig and his friends.In this installment, Freddy and some of the other animals decide to migrate south for the winter.Along the way, the animals face various trials and tribulations, including an encounters with some not-so-nice characters.Recommended!Read for graduate school at FSU: LIS 5564 Information needs of Children
I was surprised to discover that this book is so old.Very good tale for kids wriiten with awesome imagination and creativity.It clearly shows how great heart the author has to have.
The joy with his stories come from a combination of great characters (Jinx the cat, Mrs. Wiggins the cow, Charles the rooster and his hen-pecking wife, Henrietta), a matter of factness from tone (this is a world where people just accept that the Bean Farm animals can talk, they think it’s a bit odd but they accept it) and an adept weaving of complex “adult” concepts into fun, breezy plots with just the right touch of suspense.
This is one of the funniest, warmest books I’ve ever read!The whole family laughed and laughed!This book provides some wonderful mementoes and connections for our family.Highly recommended!
Delightful short tale of a farm “family” of animals who decided that in order to escape the cold of winter they will migrate south.They are inspired by the tales that the traveling birds tell them of a lush place where the beds are never cold and everyone is happy.
I don't know any kids in the age range it was written for that would actually understand it but I really liked it.Felt a bit like a Pixar movie in that it has something for the big kids too.Just a well written good story.
Written in 1926 it was a little dated but ultimately was a fun story of a group of farm animals in the North that decide they want to try out migrating to Florida for the winter.The kids were enraptured and thoroughly enjoyed the story.We won't read another Freddy story right away, but would definitely consider it in the future.
The animals in the story are discontent with the current state of Mr. Bean's farm and decide migrate to Florida.Along the way, they have many adventures as they encounter other animals and humans who would seek to capture them.
The first installment of the series which our 9 year old grandson is devouring.On his and his grandfather's recomendation, I read it via SKYPE to the far away grandkids.It worked well because several times there was a 30 to 45 second video lag; not too conducive to picture books.
This and subsequent Freddy stories were among the books that started me on a lifetime of reading about 60 years ago.The world would be a better place if many people found a quiet room and read this.
This was such an entertaining book.This was a fun little romp along the east coast, and it was great watching Freddy and his pals meet the president, outwit some crocodiles, and find some gold.This is one of the few books from the past that has actually....aged really well.So, kudos to you, Freddy!Review cross-listed here!
I just read my Christmas gift from 1958 again, and enjoyed it immensely!We had recently moved to Florida and I enjoyed sharing Freddy's and his friends' journey.It may have been written 90 years ago, but children would still enjoy their adventure!
Very fun book to read with the kids.
While the animals are willing to try brute force to continue their journey if absolutely necessary, mostly they figure out ways to perservere while they trick and outhink the bad guys.Might do better as a read aloud.
Noah and I read this book out of order---not realizing it came before "Freddy the Detective"---but it didn't matter too much in the end.Another great story about these colorful animal characters, who decide to skip a harsh winter at the farm and migrate to Florida.
John McDonaugh (aka Mr. Kangaroo) is awesome!Read one of them already!June 1, 2011:Another great Freddy book.This is the very first Freddy book that Brooks wrote, so he hasn't yet fine-tuned his characters or story-telling, but it's still better than most modern children's books out there.John McDonaugh does a fabulous job reading these books.
After a run of the Black Stallion books, "Freddy goes to Florida" provided just the right comic relief with a pig protagonist: no scary wolves coming down the chimney; no running around chasing sheep; no Stalinist ideology; no threat of being hung up in the farmer's smokehouse.
Frankly it wouldn't surprise me one bit if the makers of Babe took some inspiration from the Freddy books to fill out the ensemble cast.Freddy while talking to a barn swallow decides he's had enough of winter on the farm.
What a great series to read aloud--this is the one that started it all!
Especially when the animals have already become your friends (I got to know them in the book "Freddy the Detective"), and they are so clever, work together to overcome hardships, and have so many adventures?This series of books (written by American author Walter R.
I love this book.
This is just an awesome book for walking or hiking enthusiasts!
A great little book that no one has ever heard of (and you will never read).
Stephen Graham was an extraordinary tramp and remains a patron saint of all wild campers.If you love being outside and sleeping under the stars in a wood, by a river, on the beach, at the top of a mountain, then hunt down a copy of this gem and treasure it.
Delightful.Written in 1926 by someone who walks (tramps).I love the dramatic differences between 'tramping' in 1926 and 'backpacking' in 2017 but also the similarities: The love of being outdoors and self-sufficient for the time being.This is admittedly an odd and obscure book, but a very enjoyable read.
An absolutely magical book, anyone who has ever walked anywhere just for the joy of walking should read this book!
Very entertaining book, I liked it
wanted to read it since school....nothing specialjust bullshit.
Superb!One of my all time favorites!Especially liked the ending.
A must read novel for a science fiction enthusiast.
(No listing for that edition here in GoodReads.) A big canvas on which Hamsun depicts numerous intertwined characters' lives, focusing primarily on two on-again, off-again traveling buddies Edevart and August.Were the Poldeners happier when they stayed on the land, keeping their one or two cows, and working with the seasons -- despite some degree of privation?
Really enjoyed this poignantly rich gem from one of my all-time favorite authors KNUT HAMSUN.Great juxtaposition of personalities through various wanderings in times of both happiness and grief.Great read.
This is kinda like another novel by Hamsun ~ Growth Of Soil, it follows a cast of characters over a number of years as they struggle though life, though all the ups and downs and the changes, there's murder, grave robbing, restlessness and loss love.
Although Hamsun received the Nobel Prize he isn't widely read anymore.In this book many of Hansun's themes are on display: restlessness, the effect of industrialization on mankind, Hamsun's dislike of technology in favor of a more agrarian, simple living, the importance of friendship and so on.
Hamsun goes a step further than Hardy, I think, showing what happens when individuals try to rise above their fate, try to improve their lot.Is knowing, seeing, and having more really "being" more?It's hard for us 21st century folk to comprehend not having access to the wealth of knowledge we have now.It raised a lot of questions.
This book together with  Hunger,  Frankenstein,  1984,  Jurassic Park and  Lost Horizon are my "classic list" to be read.
The love theme of this novel is my favourite - it so well describes the pain that one feels when he is emotionally commited to a person who lives far away - the anxiety that arises in long-distance communication.
liked the way this book reflected life and the meaning you can find in the flow of life...
In the last story, I was pleasantly surprised to not have assumed Holmes place in it.Otherwise, seeing as how this has been a first time experience for me, I very much enjoyed it and will come back again in the future.
It's been a long journey for me, Holmes, and Watson, as I imagine it has been for anyone else who has dared to venture through this series in its entirety.I loved many of these stories, and enjoyed others to a lesser extent.
This is the first Sherlock Holmes book that I have read and I did enjoy it immensely.It was short; surprising and had a 'Sherlock Holmes' style more than some of the other cases.I thoroughly enjoyed it and cannot wait to read his other cases :)
One of my favourite books, always relaxing and calming me downSHERLOCKED
My goal to read all of the original Holmes stories- 4 novels and 56 stories is accomplished, and was worth every minute invested in it.
The key discovery, for all the detective's self-proclaimed 'method of logical analysis,' is often unearthed in some abstruse publication Holmes recalls having read in the distant past, while his numerous cuttings books are also a prolific source of vital information.His Last Bow was first publiished in 1917, The Casebook of Sherlock Holmes a decade later.In Sherlock Holmes we have a trail-blazing character who memorably survives the decades.
An entertaining end to the seriesI have enjoyed the other books in the Sherlock Holmes series and I was both excited and sad to begin reading the final novel.I liked the fact that a couple of the cases in this book were from the perspective of Sherlock Holmes himself, something that has never happened in all the previous books.
brilliant nothing i can say that hasnt been already said truly the master the grandfather of all cops and csi original and genius connan doyle missed his calling if he was capable of this red the master enjoy be intrigued and amazed b breathless in awe
His Last Bow is more of the Sherlock Holmes' stories written from 1908 through 1913 in The Strand magazine.Of course, the stories are uniformly outstanding and thrilling to read.All in all, His Last Bow is the penultimate set of Sherlock Holmes stories.
I read this ages ago and wish I still had a copy on my shelf.There is a good chunk available at googlebooks ; check out the ToC.Basic Problems, a lecture course, belongs with that cluster of Heidegger texts which provide an ergänzung of Sein und Zeit, ie, the main thrust of his thinking prior to the famous Kehre.
Take this unintelligible paragraph, for example, when Heidegger gets mired in his own jargon-filled mumbo-jumbo (p.Realitas, too, is a specific mode of being of the real, just as actuality is that of the actual.Look perplexed.Look very perplexed.
There is some books, stories or even characters that you put in the corner of your mind, in the corner of your heart and they follow your everywhere you go.The strenght of Judith's feeling almost breaks my heart and the climax of the book is just perfect.
Published in 1929, this is the story of Judith Earle, a clever, sensitive, lonely girl, in thrall to the family of glamorous cousins that stay for summers in the house next door.Lehman's descriptions of the natural world are evocative and the there's an almost shocking eroticism lurking beneath the surface of this story.
I really liked this book because Judith is basically cool as cucumber on the outside and a hot mess emotionally inside.The story is slow at parts (I basically could have done without the middle section about how awesome Jennifer is), but worth it in the end.If you don't find yourself screaming out loud "Judith, NO!
A writer in the tradition of Elizabeth Bowen and Elizabeth von Arnim.Wish I had discovered her during my college days ..I would have appreciated the book more...
There is some books, stories or even characters that you put in the corner of your mind, in the corner of your heart and they follow your everywhere you go.The strenght of Judith's feeling almost breaks my heart and the climax of the book is just perfect.
(hide spoiler)]The more I write about this, the more I realise how much power this book has -- I simply cannot treat these characters as anything other than actual people, and I understand in a way I am not certain I have words for how Lehmann could insist there was no lesbianism in the book and yet be wrong -- she wrote what she saw and knew, very accurately, and the words for those things have changed, there are ideas about people and relationship now that she did not really have access to.
I didn't realize it is her most famous, a "succès de scandale" for its "sensitive treatment of homosexuality" (in 1970s jacket copy, the "treatment" is always either "sensitive" or "frank").Judith, an intelligent only child of well-to-do but emotionally distant parents, educated at home, becomes infatuated with the neighboring children, who are siblings and cousins all living with one grandmother (for a variety of reasons - they are not orphaned).
Brilliant portrayal of damaged and broken lives.
It's also one of the most beautiful, tender, and melancholic books ever written about adolescence and loss, and it captures the fleeting, elusive complexities of this time in life like few novels have been able to do.
It's a juicily archetypal book about youth, in a very feminine way.Judith is one of those lonely only children in love with a family, four boys and a girl.
This novel must have caused quite a stir upon it's publication, as the naive Judith becomes enamoured first of Jennifer whilst at Cambridge, and then falls recklessly in love with Roddy, one member of the Fyfe family who had so mesmerised her as a child.
I loved this book of young love.Judith Earle has always been in love with each of her four cousins.Summers spent playing outside in the countryside.All will change when Judith goes to Cambridge college and meets Jennifer!A coming of age novel where one learns who to love and trust.It's hard to believe this was Rosamond's first novel.I will be looking out for more of her wonderful books.
Bits reminded me of my loves Brideshead Revisited & The Great Gatsby & The Secret History but the narrator is more level with her longed for objects of desire: her family is well of, she's clever & pretty & has smart clothes & when she is heartbroken she gets to escape to France & have a love affair yet it isn't good enough for her still.
The male characters all blended together and everyone felt very dull and posh.To me the best part was the last section, it felt like people had grown up a little more.The only character I really liked was Jennifer.She seemed like a tragic lesbian caught in a children's story.
i really loved this book and took my time with it.although written in 1927, it is still terribly relevant.a beautiful coming of age story about a girl exploring love and friendship.i was really shocked by how lovely and wistful this novel was.lehmann was clearly a modern, forward thinking woman.
What I liked most about this book was the insight into the characters.Also, strong female characters for the time it was written.Stayed in my mind for a long time afterwards.
I give this 3 1/2 stars.It was stunningly written--quite beautiful.I loved Judith as well.The story itself was a bit odd and meandering, though I enjoyed it for the most part.Other reviewers describe it much better than I can and some make excellent points.
Based on a lost manuscript written when Ms. Follett was nine years old, she rewrote it from memory at the age of twelve and was published and acclaimed by the age of thirteen.In some ways the keyboard may reflect the only way that a written record can be created for the experience of the child's world.
It's hard to rate because the story of the story is so incredible that it overwhelms any critique in my mind.Every reader should read the story of Barbara Follett and then read this short and etherial opus.
i read this book when i was 11 years old.it's really hard to describe this book but if you can find a copy, read it.
Enchanting, whimsical, and full of expressive delightful details, especially for the child-age of the author at the time.A window into the mind of a child's world through her eyes.Read for personal research and pleasure.
Oh, nothing in a house could compare with the world of light that Eepersip lived in!" Follett's protagonist's attention to and immersion in nature is also an attention to and immersion in the present moment, reminding me of Richard Jefferies' comment in his autobiography, The Story of My Heart, that, “It is eternity now.
You can not really read the story without thinking about the amazing story behind this little author.It is quite amazing, yet very descriptive of nature's details.There was a little note inside the book that asks to leave the book somewhere so it could disappear just like Eepersips, just like Barbara...
While not a great book, that fact that it was written by an 12 year old girl is remarkable.Very much worth a read.It can be downloaded here: https://sites.google.com/site/thehous...
I thought this was going to be a horror like Room (good book, horrific situation) but it was delightful.
It tells the story of Eepersip, a young girl who runs away from her mother and father to live in the forest and make friends with the animals.So far, so fairytale, right?It’s particularly odd, though, because it was written by a young girl.
I enjoyed reading these stories.I enjoyed reading these stories.You can read these witty remarks and I am sure you will not be able to control the chuckle or at times even the laughter.Happy that I got introduced to Father Brown.
Chesterton uses Brown not as a preaching mouthpiece, thank goodness, but as a sort of Catholic guide through the tales, should we choose to meditate on the spiritual aspects of the crimes and criminals.Should you choose not to, that's okay, the stories still stand up as fun little detective tales.
I wish that goodreads let you do 1/2 stars, b/c I feel like book should get 3 1/2...so I rounded up.Anyways, I liked the stories a lot, quite entertaining, and not a hard read at all.G.K. Chesterton made Father Brown so incongruous(sp?) that I would read his name and then forget the stories were about him...very cool.
These are truly delightful stories, particularly the ones from Chesterton's first collection -- no accident then that they form the bulk of this collection.There is something I just absolutely love about Chesterton's prose, his lurid descriptions of landscapes that set the scene with mountains f glorious adjectives.
The crimes solved have hardly any gore, blood or multiple bodies in Agatha Christie genre - these are the detective stories that deserve 4, 5 and more stars.
Thoroughly enjoyed reading these stories, though they are extremely predictable at times.
I read a few stories and they were clever, but an entire collection?Like a plateful of brownies, one is deelish, but all piled together like that would make me sick.Maybe one day I'll read a few more stories, but no more than one at a sitting please.
If I had started with Chesterton's detective stories about Father Brown maybe I would have had an easier way with other books in the same gender.His stories are plain simple but delightful.I'd recommend Father Brown to young teenagers.
A collection of short detective stories.Generally pretty good.Centered on understanding motivation, rather than observing details.Never invite Father Brown to a dinner party unless you want someone murdered.
Meh.
i loved the stories at the first chapter more than the second.
Beautifully written, succinct, charming and clever.
True to his period, his stories move slowly, which makes them a fine panacea when you need to drop off to sleep quickly.But don't dismiss his true originality and sharp-wittedness in the slow-moving plots.Father Brown, himself, is original and brilliant, though in a light under a bushel basket kind of way.
Exquisite.The origins of Cocteau's homosexuality - his struggles with it because of its overlap with the notion of authentic "love", the inner conflict between sensuality and spirituality and how the artist in himself takes the final call.Very short and succinct book with some amazing sections.
3.5I loved the prose.
I love Cocteau - his movies, his writing and his hot doodles of naked men!
On the other hand, there are reasons why people think or may be confuse the two terms – acceptance and tolerance, and more so when it comes to sexual orientation.With such thoughts I am talking about a book I read a long time ago and now reread it, dealing with sexual orientation and how it impacts people.
A brilliant little book.Anger, love, violence and longing.A complete contrast to modern romantic gay fiction, and despite it never being formally acknowledged by Cocteau, unmistakeably him.
Once, a Narcissus who pleased himself approached his mouth to the mirror, pressed his lips to it and pressed his adventure with himself all the way through to the end.Invisible like the Greek gods, I put my lips to his and imitated his gestures.
1.5
A surprise, as this book as been on my to read shelf for ages because it didn't really appeal to me.A good surprise actually, for the superb irony as for the brilliant dialogues.A classic that is worth reading, especially when it is at the same time so easy and so clever!
Sarcastic at times, witty, many grains of truth about human nature and a warning of what happens when a love of the 'system' overtakes common sense.
Hilarious !
A favorite play!I performed this on stage with a small company in front of a very small audience in Salt Lake City in early 1993 (7 shows)!I played the pharmacist.Wonderful humor.
Turns out I don't really enjoy the Wodehouse stories set in the US that much.There English setting adds a charm that is missing in the NY based stories.It was funny but not the hysterical "how can this all come together" funny that we come to expect from Wodehouse.
It's the real ginger.I needed a book to cheer me up and it did exactly that.So funny and ridiculous and unpredicable.Perfectly Wodehouse.
A very convoluted plot but exceedingly amusing as ever.
Good.
All right, all right, all right.
a hilarious rollercoaster.... :)
I love wodehouse, and this book illustrates why.Farcical, plummy, and delightful for a quick, light read to cheer up the November skies.A refreshing interlude, and pure escapism for me.
“He seems to have been kicked by a mule on his head during childhood,” as described by Beamish.Mrs. Waddington – The second wife of Mr. Waddington, she is a woman of strong personality and dominates everyone in her home and outside as well!“She has a soul like the underside of a flat stone”, as described by Beamish.Story: Any work of P.G.Wodehouse has a wafer thin story line made complex by little side plots bound by hilarious dialogs and odd character descriptions.
Lol!) Honestly, given time I could probably cast an entire 1940s movie with all the greats based of this book.It's a great book, and now I can't wait to read more by Wodehouse.If you like the Small Bachelor, definitely give Miss Pettigrew a read.)
By the last few chapters, the action is fast and furious, but still visibly a stage play in origin (in that the action takes place in what could easily be one stage set) and the denouement is superb and satisfying.There's something of a Wodehouse revival going on at the moment.
The short opening chapter of just over three lines sets the scene in the Sheridan Arpartment House in New York.The second paragraph then commences:"The Sheridan stands in the heart of New York's Bohemian and artistic quarter.
This is an early Wodehouse set in New York, and we get a bit of additional fun from the Englishman's slightly skewed take on how Americans speak and act.If you have read it, the plot is much like other Wodehouse novels, so you won't let that stop you.
though it wasn't part of any of the jeeves series, i feel like i at least got a taste of wodehouse's style.i particularly liked the cover illustration of the edition i had, which displayed a very tiny, cute, bespectacled bachelor man holding dumbbells on the roof of his nyc apt.
I am completely in love with P.G.Wodehouse and have been for years!Wodehouse has the incredible ability to immerse you into the most wonderful completely ludicrous world.If you are ever in need of a pick me up or simply need to read.My top 5 Wodehouse reads for sure!
Well, Wodehouse can do with the middle of a story what it takes a small kitten to do with a ball of string, of course, but...It may be an intricately plotted mechanism, but it doesn't feel like one.What is Wodehouse without aunts?
Definitely not the finest work of Wodehouse.The same old formula of situational comedy but lacking the endearing quality that often accompanies his scenes and characters.Even the usual wordplay wasn't that good.
I think if he could have torched New York and wiped it clean of those he saw as inferior he would have.The Horror at Red Hook tells a story taking place in the 1920s with a New York police detective named Thomas Malone.Malone is left disturbed by an incident that left several people dead.Lovecraft then works backwards telling how a rich and eccentric old man named Robert Suydam.
A great story, I thought!Even though the key basis for this story was xenophobia, I honestly don't feel that this marred it, as most do.
Maybe the sound effects were a little distracting at times when they are louder than the reader, or in between sections where there's a loud building screech noise (typical in horror movies), but they do serve the purpose they were intended for.
I will do a full review.I liked this story and understand that it is a an old short horror story.I did enjoy it tho and loved the narrator Jim Donaldson - I think his voice was perfect for this.
This novel is racist to a certain extent, but somehow its good."...and Malone could not help recalling that Kurdistan is the land of the Yezidis, last survivors of the Persian devil-worshippers." What ?!"Suddenly the leader of the visiting mariners, an Arab with a hatefully negroid mouth, pulled forth a dirty, crumpled paper and handed it to the captain" Double What?!The language is amazing  “In case of sudden or unexplained accident or death on my part, please deliver me or my body unquestioningly into the hands of the bearer and his associates.
I see a lot of comments that shred this story as a racist diatribe.If there had been an attempt by others to school him, I doubt he'd have taken the advice.That said, the man could write nightmare fiction.
This one exhibits all the same problems as much of Lovecraft's other works, with some particularly egregious racism on display.I keep hovering around a two and a half stars.I think I'm getting a bit of Lovecraft fatigue, and need to set the complete works aside for a bit.
1.5/5Vocabulary-obsessed, word-happy word-splurge.Terrible.Unfocused.Thank god it was only a short story.Verbose and tedious; I like the idea of Lovecraft's work more than I enjoy reading it.Maybe these are tales better HEARD, as in: cd books or audio versions.
Ugh, sound effects, DNF
It doesn't seem to be too popular of an opinion, but I actually really like this story.I'm not going to defend it or claim that Lovecraft was a product of his age and should get a pass for his xenophobia.That being said, the underlying story itself I found extremely entertaining.
The Horror at Red Hook by H.P. Lovecraft is an audio book I requested and the review is voluntary.I did like the story, not as much as I did when I was a teen.As a teen I craved all things Lovecraft, maybe that is why I am so warped!
I love the showing that goes on in this one!I also love that the setting, Red Hook, is a place where Lovecraft lived for a time and hated.You read enough words you don't understand and you lose the thread of the story.
This looks to me like something Trump's parents would read to him on a regular basis as a bedtime story.Throwing immigrants, devil worshiping, tribal magic and New York architecture into one melting pot gave an effect that makes the reader cringe.Not to mention other absurd ideas the reader is supposed to accept and clap along.
H.P. Lovecraft's influence on horror/weird fiction is undeniable.He had an amazing imagination.Too bad, because he was an absolutely awful writer and and an even worse human being.I would call this story racist shit, but that seems somewhat unfair to feces.
The writing is a god-awful catastrophe of "smart" words that are used to veil the grossly offensive discrimination and disrespect that is shown towards people of color, poverty, and varying religious backgrounds.I sincerely hope the rest of Lovecraft's work isn't this type of ridiculousness because if it is, then I have no idea how someone like him could be so idolized in the literary world.
Excellent listen - a classical Schnitzler novel!
--"Lord Emsworth could conceive of no way in which Freddie could be of value to a dog-biscuit firm, except possibly as a taster; but he refrained from damping the other's enthusiasm by saying so." (The Custody of the Pumpkin)--"He bent to where the animal lay on the hearth-rug, and prodded it civilly in the lower ribs.
One of the great temptations of life is to take oneself too seriously.As a writer, I can’t help but to revel in his masterful use of the English language; very few others have attained the level of precision in description that his works overflow with.
Classic Wodehouse, always a pleasure.I especially love the story in which everybody, including Lady Constance, takes a pop at everybody else with an airgun.A comfort read to make the world seem brighter and more friendly.
Fantastic as always, with a particularly good introduction - more of a tribute to Wodehouse's entire literary career.
Less well known than Wodehouse's Jeeves & Wooster stories, but just as funny!
Masterly..
Right ho! A jolly good read.
The best book you can get on the history and symbolic function of perspective in Western Art
Impressive footnotes + textual values
my art hum professor was SOOOO smart and made me love everything we so much as touched in that class
It includes the sayings and acts of the early Hasidim.Scholars refer to it when they speak about the Hasidim.For example: "Before his death, Rabbi Zusya said 'In the coming world, they will not ask me: 'Why were you not Moses?' They will ask me: 'Why were you not Zusya.'" Also, "Rabbi Uri said: 'David could compose the psalms, and what can I do?I can recite the psalms.'"
The stories themselves are full of wisdom, as one would expect from a bunch of teachers, and I am glad I made the effort to finish them.I also did learn a lot about all the destroyed towns and villages in Poland, for example, and the irony and sadness there was not lost on me, given where I currently live.
A Master Scholar this work shares the exuberant and joyous celebration of the Hasidim expression of Judiasm.I learned a great deal I did not know about what lies or did lie at the core of this amazing group.You may discover powerful and amazing Hebrew words like "Hitlahavut" or the burning ecstasy of God..Rich spiritual fare that anyone can appreciate!
Fascinating, challenging, delightful and profound stories told by the great lovers of G-d, collected by Buber, who himself qualifies as an embodiment of Chesed (lovingkindness) or a Hasid.I am never finished with this book.And it reappears in some very good company.
I first read Buber's tales for a seminary course and and have returned to this book often over the years.It was an important part of my book, God in Our Relationships: Spirituality between People from the Teachings of Martin Buber.Some of the tales are a challnege to understand, but a good number are gems.
Lots of stories about the founding rabbis of Chassidim.Some as short as a few sentences, the longest are perhaps a page, well over 1,000 in total.Somewhat similar to the P'rkei Avot.Some leave more of an imprint than others.Some make you laugh (yes, there is humor in their anecdotes), others make you think.
couldn't actually finish it
In my review of the previous book I complained that Father Brown always turned out to be much less superstitious than atheists around him.To my relief this time Chesterton let the theme of feeble-minded atheists go and as a result this book is an easier read.
Picked this up at a railway station on the way home from the NSTB Awards...just looking for something to take me home to Cornwall.But what a little gem.Dated, certainly, but such clever little mysteries.My first Father Brown, but not my last.
They share almost impossible mysteries which can only be solved in the most convoluted and unguessable manner by a man who looks at things differently to others, combined with a gentle view of Englishness and a caustic wit.
I have a "Meh" feeling toward those stories.
enjoying these clever mysteries...
"You may think a crime horrible because you could never commit it.- There you are, that was, I hope in the Chestertonian spirit.Seriously, I love everything Chesterton writes, although it is not always fun reading.But how I love to find little nuggets like this: "I don’t care for spiritual powers much myself.
These stories are fine, but they are not memorable.I will read the final book and two additional stories because I already have them, but I was disappointed in trying to find out more about the characters in the TV show.
Always love Father Brown. Enjoyed these stories.
These eight stories each illustrate a philosophical point or insight about human nature and are framed by two chapters, beginning with “The Secret of Father Brown” and ending with “The Secret of Flambeau.” Flambeau, a reformed criminal and Father Brown’s long-time friend, has married and settled down on an estate in Spain, and Father Brown has just arrived for a visit.
And when I was quite sure that I felt exactly like the murderer myself, of course I knew who he was."Even after further explanation, the American still doesn't quite get it, so Father Brown introduces the stories as case studies in his method.The eight mysteries that followed are asolid group.
I love that this is the whole basis of Father Brown's work:You don't realize how good you are and never will until you face just how bad you can be.The religious exercise that solves crime.
After reading any book of Chesterton, I get the same feeling "It was the best book I've ever read", and this is because you will always learn from them.I like to invest time in reading, but only if that time will become knowledge, wisdom, insights...Chesterton makes that possible.
In an introductory and concluding chapter, our protagonist explains how he puts himself in the mind ofthe suspect and tries to think like him or her to see if that person would have motive or reason to commit the crime.The eight short stories between are then conventional mysteries as found in the previous Father Brown anthologies.
Gave me enormous imagination!Belyaev is truly genius...I didn't think about brain massages before, i consider it's real.Maybe Belyaev have already achieved that , but who knows??
Cabell's oeuvre was the saga of Dom Manuel who's mother on her death bed him to "make a figure of himself in the world." The idiot strove to do just that, out of clay, bronze, sand, and glass; you get the idea.
Figures of Earth lacks the ingredients which mark out The Silver Stallion from just about every other fantasy novels, and Jurgen sometimes reads as though Cabell is trying too hard to shock the reader.
I am currently reading this book.It makes me laugh out loud but also puts me to sleep.Frank C.Pape's illustrations are fascinating.
Still, a solid british-style mystery thriller.Wallace pace is rapid, you get quite involved in the story.I have to say, i expected more of a murder mystery, i was reading thinking how is going to be murdered, then i got a bit frustrated, because nobody got murdered.
Edgar Wallace certainly has a fine mind for thinking up skulduggery and clever ways for people to defraud each other.Leslie's brother, Arthur Gine, has been handling family finances for quite some time and has managed to embezzle and fritter away not only Lord Chelford's money (or maybe just his mother's money), but Leslie's considerable fortune as well.
I hadn't heard of it before picking up an old edition of it at a thrift store, but I started reading it and ended up finishing it in less than a week (which is saying a lot for me, because it's rare I actually have time to read).
Excellent Edgar Wallace mystery.Hidden treasure (with admittedly a blatantly obvious clue), a mysterious ghostly monk and lots of intrigue.Not really a crime novel although there is a murder, this is a rip roaring old fashioned thriller.Wallace at his best.
This was my first Edgar Wallace book, and I will certainly be looking for more.For some reason as I read this book I kept likening it to radio serials.As I only read a short few pages every day it really did take on that sort of quality.
Excellent mystery; kidnapping, etc.
This short volume, which includes her autobiography, her essay “New Woman”, and an informative afterword, leaves one not terribly impressed about her literary merits and much more eager to read a proper biography.And as luck would have it, Haymarket Books will be publishing in 2014 a revised edition of Cathy Porter’s biography, Alexandra Kollontai: A Biography, which will be the volume I am recommending today.
She was a very active Bolshevik in the period leading up to the Russian Revolution, and she appears to have lived her Marxism in remarkable ways - like pointing out that the domestic servitude of women in marriage can be seen as akin to the oppression of the proletariat and that the place of women ought to be as much a concern as the conditions of factory workers.
Again, briefly--the best thing about this book is the title.The one thing I did like was seeing the revisions to the text after the Soviet censors had read the manuscript.This gives some idea about what it might have been like to publish a book in the Soviet society.
Brave & sad.
His description of India is dead-on, and it exquisitely captures that mixture of pity, contempt, understanding and reverence that the open minded Westerner comes to feel for Indian life.The book is a wholly admirable exercise in the broadening of an already open mind.
Anyone visiting Mumbai will agree with his observation of the crows.Aldous Huxley has surprisingly modern views for a book written in 1914, as an Indian reading it, I found I agreed with him on nearly everything, including his views on the Taj Mahal.
I just saw the movie Christopher Robin, and I'm not exactly sure why but it was a hug for my soul.I'd never read the original Pooh stories before.Turns out they are just delightful and full of quiet, humorous turns of phrase.
These stories are absolutely charming.I think I enjoyed them more than my kids.My boys enjoyed the stories, and I enjoyed the wit.Genuinely a must read.
I don't know WHY on earth they would do it this way, but the stories are not just a random jumble of selections from Winnie-the-Pooh and The House at Pooh Corner, they are all out of order!There are some cute ones but part of the humor is supposed to be that Pooh and Piglet and company are rather know-it-all and selfish.
Peter Denis reads them aloud and in that audio version there is an introduction written by Christopher Robin himself (in which he recommends listening to Peter read them).If your children are going to be watching the Disney versions of these immortal tales then they certainly ought to listen or read the originals because there is far more charm and wisdom in them.
I have never read the "real" Pooh books so I can't quite compare but this is just a collection of stories and they all seemed to be out of order.There were several instances of things being out of order and I was unimpressed.
I don't remember reading this book when I was little, so it was new for me as I read it to my daughter.My favorite parts were the little songs Pooh makes up throughout.I also liked that the whole book is a set of stories told to the "real" Christopher Robin by his Mom?
I loved reading these stories aloud with my son again, now he's a little older.This particular edition, however, the stories are not in order though, which can be confusing, but as we knew the stories anyway we just enjoyed reading it.It was a sweet nightly read with my boy.
This collection of about 10 books (may be more, may be less, they are now scattered throughout various bookshelves in our house), is simply enchanting.The innocence of Pooh and his companions is a joy to behold, and the stories endure long after the children have progressed out of the nursery.
This book is all the comfort and love of childhood in one cover.Winnie the Pooh shaped my life from the beginning, and even now, sixteen years later, it touches me to read it.All of the tales of Pooh and Piglet and Christopher Robin are like a window to the past, an insight on the simplicity of childhood.
Moms facing empty nests should really have a whole pack of tissues at their disposal for the last chapter of this book (really two books in one).What sorrow that this is the last time I will read these books to my children!
This book is not one to read straight through.Each chapter is a different story.And some of the stories I really did not like.Considered reading this to my son but really did not like the way the stories read.The movie is better in my opinion.
Such adorable stories!My children and I have cozied up for a laugh each evening and played Pooh sticks at every bridge.We have talked about fears and friendships.In short this has been a joyful read aloud book
I love this copy of Milne's stories.
Classic Pooh with classic moments
So imaginative. Really captures a child's world.
Narration stellar!
I read this to my children, but I got as much enjoyment out of it as they did.
wonderful read aloud--actually so smart--you want to read it to older kids to get the full benefit of the fun humor and touching dialogue.
One of my absolute favorites!
Unpopular opinion: Mosquitoes is actually my favorite Faulkner novel.It may not have the same "gravity of human experience" as his other works, but in it we find Faulkner as comedian attempting to explore and express his views on "serious art." And he does a fantastic job.Hugely entertaining and genuinely insightful, it's repeatedly the Faulkner novel I most look forward to reading again and again.
I'm giving this book a five star rating because at first and superficial glance it will make me look smart because I liked a book by Falkner finally.They are annoying and spoiled otherwise.- it felt like the milk toast answer to the Harlem Renaissance.- I want some milk and toast.
Analyzing Faulkner is a bloated, rubbery thing, and when it gets to the point where the study of an artist becomes an industry (only slightly worse than an author becoming an industry) it's time to step back and just read their goddamn books.
It contains the typically unforgettable, i.e. singular Faulknerian characters, is influenced heavily by Joyce's emphasis on sexual themes, and features some of the most devastatingly sardonic humour in it I have ever come across.This does not rank among his true masterpieces such as Absalom!
Faulkner sets himself apart via his mastery of language, story telling, dialog, and character development.He never misses a step.About a chapter and a half into the read i thought, "This is why my mother thinks I can't write!" And I am OK with needing to work to aspire to Faulkner.
I am a pretty big Faulkner fan, but I grew tired with the similarities between most of his better known books.Mosquitoes is a breath of fresh air after reading Faulkner's other works--not because he isn't an incredible writer, but because it is more Fitzgerald-like than it is Faulkner-like.Definitely read this book to expand your understanding of Faulkner.
There are a few really beautiful parts to this book.But mostly I was bored.Because perhaps the only thing more boring than people talking about art is reading about people talking about art.And maybe thats the point.Because the only real artist in the book doesn't talk about it.
You'll also get a completely engrossing opening riff (seemingly covering everything from the title bug to Love and Art and the too-fleeting nature of Life Itself, and of course Girls) and a drunken ending right out of a 20s Screwball Comedy-or perhaps a peek into the troubled Faulkner screenplay for The Big Sleep.I'll admit, a lot of it droned by.
That being said, without much of a plot to hold it together and with a fair dash of prose experiments on Faulkner's part, Mosquitoes is a supremely difficult read.it seems that this method would net a better appreciation of this early Faulkner.
This is Faulkner's second novel, and like most of his early writing, it is more accessible than some of his later, more experimental and modernist work.I recommend it for anyone interested in literary fiction, and especially for those previously frustrated by attempts to read Faulkner.
Though slagged as Faulkner's worse novel by the all knowing academia, I actually found it to be a good read.It was far, far superior to Faulkner's first, Soldier's Pay. This reads much more like Faulkner in his prime.More a novel of ideas than anything else, it introduces us to some of his future favorite words like...
Drags in places.Not just because of Faulkner's long passages of stream of consciousness...though that is here too.But just because there's not really a story here.Faulkner is working out a lot of how he sees art and its purpose.And how he sees women...less than flatteringly.An interesting early novel.
Definite improvement over his first novel.The book contained the most humor of any Faulkner novel, which made it strange due to my past experiences with his writing.He starts to dabble with a bit more adventurous writing techniques that would become his halmark later on.All and all a pretty enjoyable read.
A lot better than it gets credit for.Reminiscent of Waugh and early Huxley.There are some brief Joycean moments that don't really work, but that prefigure more successful experimentation in later Faulkner novels.Not as good or ambitious as Sartoris, but far more accomplished and coherent than Soldiers' Pay.
Mrs. Patricia Maurier starts out being this haughty old lady who is overconfident in her observations of art and artists, and she transforms into this crushed old lady who is only just realizing that the people in her life are using her.Ernest Talliaferro was a man who knew women in the sense of knowing how to make them up.
Respect for People Jidoka (Toyota’s Pillars) are prominently called out in this book, even though Ford doesn’t title them this.In a time where there was no middle class - he showed respect for people.Ford stresses repeatedly through “Today Tomorrow” that it is possible to pay high wages and reduce cost of product as his people are workers and problem solvers.
I like most of the chapters from the book.I got especially taken in by the chapter about the nation's wealth, and the idea behind charities.I do recommend to others to read, review and keep it accessible in their bookshelves.For me, this is a must-read.
I was somewhat surprised to see that Henry Ford outlined a complete and modern continuous process improvement program back in 1926 -- long before quality circles, total quality management, and lean six sigma.Otherwise, this is a very good book, maybe a must read, for those interested in continuous process improvement.
This book is the second of 3 books written by Henry Ford.This book is essential for anyone interested in Henry Ford, the Model T, or automotive history.Highly recommended for those interested in automotive manufacturing, Henry Ford, the Model T, and attitudes toward work and compensation in the mid 1020s.
Taiichi Ohno was the inventor of the Toyota Production System, which was copied during the 1980's by Sony and practically other Japanese and Asian Tiger industrial firm.Taiichi Ohno read and reread Today and Tomorrow (published 1926), for Ford's book was a remarkable blueprint of how Henry Ford was achieving what we call today "Total Quality Management".
Move over Masters and Johnson, an amazingly enlightened book from an amazingly unenlightened era
I also learned that the colored races are fond of insertion without ejaculation (namely the Japanese).Celery is a major aphrodisiac, but drinking lemonade will drastically decrease your sexual desire.And if you want to learn about the odors of smegma in men and women, I can't think of a better book to read.
Ideal Marriage: Its Physiology and Technique (Hardcover) by Th.H. van de Velde the Kinsey character in the movie "KINSEY Let's talk about sex " reads from the book.Everything he reads is sexual and reproductive nonsense.
I picked this from a pile of free books, based on the title "Ideal Marriage." I didn't really focus on the subtitle, so I was pretty surprised when I started reading.It is interesting, in a way, to read a sex manual from 1926.
I think it's great!
Sabatini.I liked Bellarion as the naive, classically educated wanderer whose native intelligence leads to an unsuspected ability to solve problems and strategize, especially in statehood and warfare.However, it is a good story overall and with my battle skimming abilities I enjoyed it.
Whenever anybody talks about Rafael Sabatini's best works, Scaramouche and Captain Blood are often recommended.But Bellarion in my opinion is as good as any of them.Extra star for a hero who uses his brain rather than his brawn, the haughty princess who disdains him till the last minute.Plus the political manoeuvrings and the historical setting.What's not to love?
i have mixed feelings about this book.a long time ago i read scaramouche, another similar book by the same author which i enjoyed.The use of contemporary allusions and references, of books Bellarion might have read, fictioanl and real, of real historical figures, makes it quite interesting.
But watching Bellarion spin circles around his peers and opponents, squeak his way out of death more than once, and wrestle his way from obscurity into bombastic success is more than worth the suspensions of disbelief required.Sabatini's language is gorgeous and clever, and I didn't mind one bit having to look up words, sometimes four or more in a chapter, because of the richness in understanding a turn of phrase.
Another epic to the scale of Captain Blood, the Carolinian and Scaramouche in that the protagonist embroils himself into the fate of a major historical event.Sabatini does not forget any of the many major and minor characters have their actions effect the story all the way through.
So, when Bellarion killed a man in cold blood just a few short chapters in, with very little compunction, it was a good jolt out of the usual Sabatini framework.Add in that Bellarion is on the edge of physical cowardice (although not one, of course), and you've got a hero (but never anti-hero) that stands out from the rest.
Gorgeously written!The beginning was a little slow but defiantly gets interesting and complicated soon.It is not a blow through kind of book and even though I have a wide vocabulary I try to have a dictionary nearby.Also, Sabatini assumes the reader knows Latin – I don’t but I am starting to learn.
Probably my favorite book by my favorite author.Sabatini is the master of the historical fiction, and this is a nicely woven tale that includes all kinds of great themes: coming of age, love, fighting, misunderstandings, early 15th Century Italy, etc.A real treat to read and re-read (if you're a big fat sap like me).
Classic Sabatini at his best.Bellarion rivals Scaramouche as my favorite.The master of historical adventure fiction who gives Dumas his greatest challenge.Eloquent, philosophical, witty, riveting.Brilliant.
Pure enjoyment.That warm feeling of satisfaction that only Sabatini creates.Adventure writing at its finest!
Wonderful historical fiction of the swashbuckling adventure type!
This might be my favorite book of all time...
Actually, I didn't finish the book; I did not find it appealing at all, even though I had totally enjoyed Scaramouche by the same author.
My favorite Sabatini novel....have red it at least 5 times over the years.....and went to the trouble of finding myself a copy from Abe Books....
And while I often find his limited/inaccurate ideas about historical gender roles and, ahem, womanly character annoying, Valeria, Beatrice, and an unnamed prostitute all come off very well in this, as interesting characters working to make their way in a society that put limitations on how they might do so.
This is the tale of how Bellarion rose rapidly from himble beginning to become vastly wealthy prince and renowned mercenary commander, and for me it still works as a story.However, overall this has stood the test of time fairly well.
I was also familiar with the fine ironic tone and and the flavour of a fairy tale encountered in The Tale of the 1002nd Night: A Novel, and with the social and political criticism of the The Radetzky March.But there was something additional this time: the bizarre role of the narrator and his claims.For the subtitle of this novel, Bericht, or Report, announces the claims with which it begins.Joseph Roth writes that he is giving us an account of the life of his friend Franz Tunda, and that it is all based on Tunda’s narration and notes.
His lightness of touch and deceptive simplicity, his ability to see in simple everyday life things others don't see, his deep sense of humanity, and of course his mastery of language, are ingredients that in my eyes make a writer that can hardly be bettered by any other.
It's in his understanding of mythology that Bultmann starts to get into trouble, because he doesn't distinguish between hermeneutics (the idea that all interpretations have to begin from a series of assumptions or biases), and existentialism, the idea that Man is Confronted By His Existence as a Question and so on: from a later perspective, he can't see that there's a difference between early Heidegger and later Gadamer.
Because Bultmann denies that God can be analyzed in the latter sense, and that God works within history, not from without it, a demythologization of the New Testament will not lead us to a faith in God, but will provide, in some ways, an existential encounter with the text: by understanding our life-situation, we are confronted with the responsibility for that situation.
Rudolf Bultmann asks great questions concerning the contemporary import of the 2,000 year old proclamation that Jesus is Lord.How does "modern" man relate to "ancient" man without collapsing into C.S. Lewis' chronological snobbery?This is a quick but potent read.Not for the answers given but for the questions raised.A must read for some.
The final chapter The Meaning of God as Acting is worth the five stars alone.(that modernity demands we de-mytholgize the New Testament to the extent that he proposes, or in his seeming rejection of metaphysical statements about God or the afterlife) NO.For the afterlife I recommend Unamuno.
I used to despise Bultmann's existentialist approach to hermeneutics; this is no longer the case.This is a really short (and easy) work in which Bultmann outlines his project of demythologization.To understand Modern theology, Bultmann is a must read.
Very academic
I liked this.I agreed more or less, and I appreciated the readability.I just think it could have been put together better.
For a so-called "ephoch-making" work wrestling with amongst other things Jesus Christ and mythology (duh), a search for a Biblical hermenuetic, eschatalogy, and the philosophical impact of Heidegger this is a surprisingly short and simple read.Personally, I have read much about Bultmann but had yet to read any of his works.Bultmann is simple but complex.
Meh. I didn't really buy most of his premises, and thus can't accept his argument or conclusions.He seems to be looking at everything from exclusively a post-enlightenment materialistic view, at the expense of the actual text he claims to be supporting.
Very smart guy, very tightly woven argument...not persuasive to me though.He is a stepping stone in hermeneutics, nothing to end on, but something one should read and be familiar with, many good points.
Don't let the title fool you.The book is not meant to debunk Christianity.It just gives another method of interpretation in which anyone may extract the truths found in scripture.
A classic.
My review is not about the Audio Cassette, rather than a collection of short stories by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, titled after one of them, The Lion's Mane.It also turned out to be the first book about Sherlock Holmes that I read and, not unexpectedly, I found it quite enjoyable.
The ninth short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle.Sherlock Holmes is retired, but a murder mystery intrigues him.An entertaining mystery.
A note confirming a meeting with her was found on McPherson, but it gave no clear details.Holmes goes to look at the lagoon formed by a recent storm that local men have been using as a bathing pond.
It is found in the book The Return of Sherlock Holmes.I see everything in clear daylight; I remember this story vividly - and I read it 50 years ago!I would recommend any Sherlock Holmes story as highly recommended reading.Books are meant to be read, and yes, stories are meant to be heard.
Sherlock Holmes's retired and spending his time on his researches leisurely, but wherever he goes , whatever he does, he just cant scape from an episode.Its a bit different story without his long time partner Watson, I really missed him in this adventure.But as usual, Conan Doyle keeps the readers on the edge throughout the story.
Having recently seen the film Mr Holmes at the cinema I thought it was time to read, once again, a Conan Doyle story set after the great detective's retirement.This is a fairly straightforward adventure, this time narrated by Holmes instead of Watson.
The Adventure of the Lion's Mane was a true gem in the canon.Not only were the characters beautifully characterized but the narration by Holmes was yet another testament to Doyle's craftsmanship.Truly one of my favorites so far!
holmes writing his own tales is a terrible thing to read, oh yeah sherlock it was the fucking jellyfish that did it
Sherlock Holmes, brilliant as always!
Guy de Maupassant is very likely the greatest short story writer who ever lived.His writing is superbly disciplined, his visual sense is such that he can make you see the scenes he is describing in your mind's eye, and his sense of character is such that the people in his stories are living, breathing, believable characters.Nothing is perfect, but Maupassant comes close.
Endles stories of seduction, and betrayal.Women are unfathomable playthings.I realize that he was writing about the culture and social set he was involved in, but it was all too much for me.He died of syphilis - I understand why.
Also, some ratings change after I read the book for the second (or third) time; nowadays I tend to appreciate some things a lot more than I used to.
Meh.I don't see the hype.Ball-of-Fat is told well but, it lacks suspense.I love the social commentary but, it just didn't make it for me.Maupassant also uses sex as a plot device often.Nowadays, in this secular culture, what was once edgy, is now rather tame.Nothing worth reading.
All a little different - had read The Necklace (surprise ending) and wanted to read more of him.
masterful short stories
Perfection of the short story.Learning to guess the game of where a story is going is great fun with a master like Guy de Maupassant.Nothing more relaxing than a volume of best short stories.
This book cannot be reviewed by mortals.I have read hundreds of short story collections- none quite as rich in variety and amazing in character portrayal as Maupassant's tales.I think I need to come up with a superlative for LOVE to describe what infinite reverence and affection I feel for the writer and his work.
My favorite short story author
Guy de Maupassant is one of my most favorite short story authors.His writing is crisp, concise, imaginative and very poetic.I am very glad I stumbled upon him in college.Became an instant fan!
Absolutely loved it.Paul's Mistress is probably among my favorite short stories, Maupassant is really an amazing writer.I wish I could read them in French!
Just because you put together beautiful words, it doesn’t make it a great story ​
Nothing special here.I also like, despite not loving this story, the trend in those old days of writers making their hero realistic in that they can be frightened.The story pretty much ends with the protagonist legging it and then collapsing in horror.
I would give this five stars if it weren’t for the blatant racism.It’s really astounding to me that someone so educated could also be such a blithering bigot.Yeah, it was a different time back then and blah blah blah, but I still expect more from people of those days who were educated.Totally disappointing.
This is one of the least interesting short stories by Lovecraft, marred by his strong xenophobia.Wondering at night he encounters a like minded individual, that show him the beauty of the city that was, and the horrors of the city that will be.
Cool story.
This is a story in which you really see the deep links between Lovecraft's extreme racism and the themes in his horror stories.Reading these stories is depressing me.I may have to stop.
Whitehead, co-author with Bertrand Russell of the Principia Mathematica, is remarkable as a philosopher strongly interested in religion who attempted to relate theology to the contemporary fields of particle physics and cosmology.
Although I didn't really appreciate the latter portions of the book, it's enjoyable how Whitehead tries to explain the evolution of religion and the existence of God. The conclusion is particularly good: 'He (God) is that element in virtue of which our purposes extend beyond values for ourselves to values for others.
Excellent work on religion and it's function in the world.Whitehead puts forth amazing ideas about God and religion that is both groundbreaking and game changing, and this is 90 years old.Looking forward to studying this work and Whitehead further.
God!The things people for love and what not.The ending kinda surprised me.
Racist, sexist, bullshit which should never have been published.
Again a fine story with fine ending.
Brilliant (especially when you consider this was published in 1926)